,_id,name,chemical_formula,description,status,average_mw,monoisotopic_mw,state,sources,inchikey
0,HMDB0000011,3-hydroxybutyric acid,C4H8O3,"3-Hydroxybutyric acid (CAS: 300-85-6), also known as beta-hydroxybutanoic acid, is a typical partial-degradation product of branched-chain amino acids (primarily valine) released from muscle for hepatic and renal gluconeogenesis. This acid is metabolized by 3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase (catalyzes the oxidation of 3-hydroxybutyrate to form acetoacetate, using NAD+ as an electron acceptor). The enzyme functions in nervous tissues and muscles, enabling the use of circulating hydroxybutyrate as a fuel. In the liver mitochondrial matrix, the enzyme can also catalyze the reverse reaction, a step in ketogenesis. 3-Hydroxybutyric acid is a chiral compound having two enantiomers, D-3-hydroxybutyric acid and L-3-hydroxybutyric acid, and is a ketone body. Like the other ketone bodies (acetoacetate and acetone), levels of 3-hydroxybutyrate in blood and urine are raised in ketosis. In humans, 3-hydroxybutyrate is synthesized in the liver from acetyl-CoA and can be used as an energy source by the brain when blood glucose is low. Blood levels of 3-hydroxybutyric acid levels may be monitored in diabetic patients to look for diabetic ketoacidosis. Persistent mild hyperketonemia is a common finding in newborns. Ketone bodies serve as an indispensable source of energy for extrahepatic tissues, especially the brain and lung of developing mammals. Another important function of ketone bodies is to provide acetoacetyl-CoA and acetyl-CoA for the synthesis of cholesterol, fatty acids, and complex lipids. During the early postnatal period, acetoacetate (AcAc) and beta-hydroxybutyrate are preferred over glucose as substrates for the synthesis of phospholipids and sphingolipids in accord with requirements for brain growth and myelination. Thus, during the first two weeks of postnatal development, when the accumulation of cholesterol and phospholipids accelerates, the proportion of ketone bodies incorporated into these lipids increases. On the other hand, an increased proportion of ketone bodies is utilized for cerebroside synthesis during the period of active myelination. In the lung, AcAc serves better than glucose as a precursor for the synthesis of lung phospholipids. The synthesized lipids, particularly dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, are incorporated into surfactant, and thus have a potential role in supplying adequate surfactant lipids to maintain lung function during the early days of life (PMID: 3884391). 3-Hydroxybutyric acid is found to be associated with fumarase deficiency and medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, which are inborn errors of metabolism. 3-Hydroxybutyric acid is a metabolite of Alcaligenes and can be produced from plastic metabolization or incorporated into polymers, depending on the species (PMID: 7646009, 18615882).",quantified,104.1045,104.047344122,solid,"['blood', 'cellular cytoplasm', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",WHBMMWSBFZVSSR-GSVOUGTGSA-N
1,HMDB0000020,p-hydroxyphenylacetic acid,C8H8O3,"p-Hydroxyphenylacetic acid, also known as 4-hydroxybenzeneacetate, is classified as a member of the 1-hydroxy-2-unsubstituted benzenoids. 1-Hydroxy-2-unsubstituted benzenoids are phenols that are unsubstituted at the 2-position. p-Hydroxyphenylacetic acid is considered to be slightly soluble (in water) and acidic.  p-Hydroxyphenylacetic acid can be synthesized from acetic acid. It is also a parent compound for other transformation products, including but not limited to, methyl 2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)acetate, ixerochinolide, and lactucopicrin 15-oxalate.  p-Hydroxyphenylacetic acid can be found in numerous foods such as olives, cocoa beans, oats, and mushrooms. p-Hydroxyphenylacetic acid can be found throughout all human tissues and in all biofluids. Within a cell, p-hydroxyphenylacetic acid is primarily located in the cytoplasm and in the extracellular space. p-Hydroxyphenylacetic acid is also a microbial metabolite produced by Acinetobacter, Clostridium, Klebsiella, Pseudomonas, and Proteus. Higher levels of this metabolite are associated with an overgrowth of small intestinal bacteria from Clostridia species including C. difficile, C. stricklandii, C. lituseburense, C. subterminale, C. putrefaciens, and C. propionicum (PMID: 476929, 12173102). p-Hydroxyphenylacetic acid is detected after the consumption of whole grain.",quantified,152.1473,152.047344122,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",XQXPVVBIMDBYFF-UHFFFAOYSA-N
2,HMDB0000039,butyric acid,C4H8O2,"Butyric acid is a short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) formed in the mammalian colon by bacterial fermentation of carbohydrates (including dietary fibre). It is a straight-chain alkyl carboxylic acid that appears as an oily, colorless liquid with an unpleasant (rancid butter) odor. The name butyric acid comes from the Greek word for ""butter"", the substance in which it was first found. Triglycerides of butyric acid constitute 3‚Äì4% of butter. When butter goes rancid, butyric acid is liberated from the short-chain triglycerides via hydrolysis. Butyric acid is a widely distributed SCFA and is found in all organisms ranging from bacteria to plants to animals. It is present in animal fat and plant oils, bovine milk, breast milk, butter, parmesan cheese, body odor and vomit. While butyric acid has an unpleasant odor, it does have a pleasant buttery taste. As a result, butyric acid is used as a flavoring agent in food manufacturing. Low-molecular-weight esters of butyric acid, such as methyl butyrate, also have very pleasant aromas or tastes. As a result, several butyrate esters are used as food and perfume additives. Butyrate is naturally produced by fermentation processes performed by obligate anaerobic bacteria found in the mammalian gut. It is a metabolite of several bacterial genera including Anaerostipes, Coprococcus, Eubacterium, Faecalibacterium and Roseburia (PMID: 12324374; PMID: 27446020). Highly-fermentable fiber residues, such as those from resistant starch, oat bran, pectin, and guar can be transformed by colonic bacteria into butyrate. One study found that resistant starch consistently produces more butyrate than other types of dietary fibre (PMID: 14747692). The production of butyrate from fibres in ruminant animals such as cattle is responsible for the butyrate content of milk and butter. Butyrate has a number of important biological functions and binds to several specific receptors. In humans, butyric acid is one of two primary endogenous agonists of human hydroxycarboxylic acid receptor 2 (HCA2), a G protein-coupled receptor. Like other SCFAs, butyrate is also an agonist at the free fatty acid receptors FFAR2 and FFAR3, which function as nutrient sensors that facilitate the homeostatic control of energy balance. Butyrate is essential to host immune homeostasis (PMID: 25875123). Butyrate's effects on the immune system are mediated through the inhibition of class I histone deacetylases (specifically, HDAC1, HDAC2, HDAC3, and HDAC8) and activation of its G-protein coupled receptor targets including HCA2, FFAR2 and FFAR3. Among the short-chain fatty acids, butyrate is the most potent promoter of intestinal regulatory T cells in vitro and the only SCFA that is an HCA2 ligand (PMID: 25741338). Butyrate has been shown to be a critical mediator of the colonic inflammatory response. It possesses both preventive and therapeutic potential to counteract inflammation-mediated ulcerative colitis and colorectal cancer. As a short-chain fatty acid, butyrate is metabolized by mitochondria as an energy source through fatty acid metabolism. In particular, it is an important energy source for cells lining the mammalian colon (colonocytes). Without butyrate, colon cells undergo autophagy (i.e., self-digestion) and die.",quantified,88.1051,88.0524295,liquid,"['blood', 'breast milk', 'breath', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",FERIUCNNQQJTOY-UHFFFAOYSA-N
3,HMDB0000042,acetic acid,C2H4O2,"Acetic acid is a two-carbon, straight-chain fatty acid. It is the smallest short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) and one of the simplest carboxylic acids. is an acidic, colourless liquid and is the main component in vinegar. Acetic acid has a sour taste and pungent smell. It is an important chemical reagent and industrial chemical that is used in the production of plastic soft drink bottles, photographic film; and polyvinyl acetate for wood glue, as well as many synthetic fibres and fabrics. In households diluted acetic acid is often used as a cleaning agent. In the food industry acetic acid is used as an acidity regulator. Acetic acid is found in all organisms, from bacteria to plants to humans. The acetyl group, derived from acetic acid, is fundamental to the biochemistry of virtually all forms of life. When bound to coenzyme A (to form acetylCoA) it is central to the metabolism of carbohydrates and fats. However, the concentration of free acetic acid in cells is kept at a low level to avoid disrupting the control of the pH of the cell contents. Acetic acid is produced and excreted in large amounts by certain acetic acid bacteria, notably the Acetobacter genus and Clostridium acetobutylicum. These bacteria are found universally in foodstuffs, water, and soil. Due to their widespread presence on fruit, acetic acid is produced naturally as fruits and many other sugar-rich foods spoil. Several species of anaerobic bacteria, including members of the genus Clostridium and Acetobacterium can convert sugars to acetic acid directly. However, Clostridium bacteria are less acid-tolerant than Acetobacter. Even the most acid-tolerant Clostridium strains can produce acetic acid in concentrations of only a few per cent, compared to Acetobacter strains that can produce acetic acid in concentrations up to 20%. Acetic acid is also a component of the vaginal lubrication of humans and other primates, where it appears to serve as a mild antibacterial agent. Acetic acid can be found in other biofluids such as urine at low concentrations. Urinary acetic acid is produced by bacteria such as Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumonia, Enterobacter, Acinetobacter, Proteus mirabilis, Citrobacter frundii, Enterococcus faecalis, Streptococcus group B, Staphylococcus saprophyticus (PMID: 22292465). Acetic acid concentrations greater than 30 uM/mM creatinine in the urine can indicate a urinary tract infection, which typically suggests the presence of E. coli or Klebshiella pneumonia in the urinary tract. (PMID: 24909875) Acetic acid is also produced by other bacteria such as Akkermansia, Bacteroidetes, Bifidobacterium, Prevotella and Ruminococcus (PMID: 20444704; PMID: 22292465).",quantified,60.052,60.021129372,liquid,"['blood', 'breast milk', 'breath', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",QTBSBXVTEAMEQO-UHFFFAOYSA-N
4,HMDB0000044,ascorbic acid,C6H8O6,"Ascorbic acid is found naturally in citrus fruits and many vegetables and is an essential nutrient in human diets. It is necessary to maintain connective tissue and bone. The biologically active form of ascorbic acid is vitamin C. Vitamin C is a water soluble vitamin. Primates (including humans) and a few other species in all divisions of the animal kingdom, notably the guinea pig, have lost the ability to synthesize ascorbic acid and must obtain it in their food. Vitamin C functions as a reducing agent and coenzyme in several metabolic pathways. Vitamin C is considered an antioxidant (PubChem). Ascorbic acid is an electron donor for enzymes involved in collagen hydroxylation, biosynthesis of carnitine and norepinephrine, tyrosine metabolism, and amidation of peptide hormones. Ascrobic acid (vitamin C) deficiency causes scurvy. The amount of vitamin C necessary to prevent scurvy may not be adequate to maintain optimal health. The ability of vitamin C to donate electrons also makes it a potent water-soluble antioxidant that readily scavenges free radicals such as molecular oxygen, superoxide, hydroxyl radical, and hypochlorous acid. In this setting, several mechanisms could account for a link between vitamin C and heart disease. One is the relation between LDL oxidation and vitamins C and E. Vitamin C in vitro can recycle vitamin E, which can donate electrons to prevent LDL oxidation in vitro. As the lipid-phase vitamin E is oxidized, it can be regenerated by aqueous vitamin C. Other possibilities are that vitamin C could decrease cholesterol by mechanisms not well characterized, or could improve vasodilatation and vascular reactivity, perhaps by decreasing the interactions of nitric oxide with oxidants (PMID: 10799361). Moreover, ascorbic acid is found to be associated with hyperoxalemia, which is an inborn error of metabolism. Ascorbic acid is also a microbial metabolite produced by Ketogulonicigenium (PMID: 15785002).",quantified,176.1241,176.032087988,solid,"['amniotic fluid', 'blood', 'breast milk', 'cellular cytoplasm', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'saliva', 'urine']",CIWBSHSKHKDKBQ-JLAZNSOCSA-N
5,HMDB0000048,melibiose,C12H22O11,"Melibiose (CAS: 585-99-9) is a disaccharide consisting of one galactose and one glucose moiety in an alpha (1-6) glycosidic linkage. This sugar is produced and metabolized only by enteric and lactic acid bacteria and other microbes, such as Dickeya dadantii, Escherichia, Leuconostoc, and Saccharomyces (PMID: 19734309, 28453942). It is not an endogenous metabolite but may be obtained from the consumption of partially fermented molasses, brown sugar, or honey. Antibodies to melibiose will appear in individuals affected by Chagas' disease (Trypanosoma cruzi infection). Melibiose is not metabolized by humans but can be broken down by gut microflora, such as E. coli. In fact, E. coli is able to utilize melibiose as a sole source of carbon. Melibiose is first imported by the melibiose permease, MelB and then converted into β-D-glucose and β-D-galactose by the α-galactosidase encoded by melA. Because of its poor digestibility, melibiose (along with rhamnose) can be used together for noninvasive intestinal mucosa barrier testing. This test can be used to assess malabsorption or impairment of intestinal permeability. Recent studies with dietary melibiose have shown that it can strongly affect the Th cell responses to an ingested antigen. It has been suggested that melibiose could be used to enhance the induction of oral tolerance (PMID: 17986780).",quantified,342.2965,342.116211546,solid,['urine'],DLRVVLDZNNYCBX-CQHUIXDMSA-N
6,HMDB0000068,epinephrine,C9H13NO3,"Epinephrine is a catecholamine, a sympathomimetic monoamine derived from the amino acids phenylalanine and tyrosine. It is the active sympathomimetic hormone secreted from the adrenal medulla in most species. It stimulates both the alpha- and beta- adrenergic systems, causes systemic vasoconstriction and gastrointestinal relaxation, stimulates the heart, and dilates bronchi and cerebral vessels. It is used in asthma and cardiac failure and to delay absorption of local anesthetics. Epinephrine also constricts arterioles in the skin and gut while dilating arterioles in leg muscles. It elevates the blood sugar level by increasing hydrolysis of glycogen to glucose in the liver, and at the same time begins the breakdown of lipids in adipocytes. Epinephrine has a suppressive effect on the immune system.",quantified,183.2044,183.089543287,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'urine']",UCTWMZQNUQWSLP-VIFPVBQESA-N
7,HMDB0000073,dopamine,C8H11NO2,"Dopamine is a member of the catecholamine family of neurotransmitters in the brain and is a precursor to epinephrine (adrenaline) and norepinephrine (noradrenaline). Dopamine is synthesized in the body (mainly by nervous tissue and adrenal glands) first by the hydration of the amino acid tyrosine to DOPA by tyrosine hydroxylase and then by the decarboxylation of DOPA by aromatic-L-amino-acid decarboxylase. Dopamine is a major transmitter in the extrapyramidal system of the brain, and important in regulating movement. A family of receptors (dopamine receptors) mediates its action, which plays a major role in reward-motivated behaviour. Dopamine has many other functions outside the brain. In blood vessels, dopamine inhibits norepinephrine release and acts as a vasodilator (at normal concentrations); in the kidneys, it increases sodium excretion and urine output; in the pancreas, it reduces insulin production; in the digestive system, it reduces gastrointestinal motility and protects intestinal mucosa; and in the immune system, it reduces the activity of lymphocytes. Parkinson's disease, a degenerative condition causing tremor and motor impairment, is caused by a loss of dopamine-secreting neurons in an area of the midbrain called the substantia nigra. There is evidence that schizophrenia involves altered levels of dopamine activity, and most antipsychotic drugs used to treat this are dopamine antagonists, which reduce dopamine activity. Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, bipolar disorder, and addiction are also characterized by defects in dopamine production or metabolism. It has been suggested that animals derived their dopamine-synthesizing machinery from bacteria via horizontal gene transfer that may have occurred relatively late in evolutionary time. This is perhaps a result of the symbiotic incorporation of bacteria into eukaryotic cells that gave rise to mitochondria. Dopamine is elevated in the urine of people who consume bananas. When present in sufficiently high levels, dopamine can be a neurotoxin and a metabotoxin. A neurotoxin is a compound that disrupts or attacks neural tissue. A metabotoxin is an endogenously produced metabolite that causes adverse health effects at chronically high levels. Chronically high levels of dopamine are associated with neuroblastoma, Costello syndrome, leukemia, phaeochromocytoma, aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase deficiency, and Menkes disease (MNK). High levels of dopamine can lead to hyperactivity, insomnia, agitation and anxiety, depression, delusions, excessive salivation, nausea, and digestive problems. A study has shown that urinary dopamine is produced by Bacillus and Serratia (PMID: 24621061)",quantified,153.1784,153.078978601,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'urine']",VYFYYTLLBUKUHU-UHFFFAOYSA-N
8,HMDB0000087,dimethylamine,C2H7N,"Dimethylamine (DMA) is an organic secondary amine. It is a colorless, liquefied and flammable gas with an ammonia and fish-like odor. Dimethylamine is abundantly present in human urine. Main sources of urinary DMA have been reported to include trimethylamine N-oxide, a common food component, and asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), an endogenous inhibitor of nitric oxide (NO) synthesis. ADMA is excreted in the urine in part unmetabolized and in part after hydrolysis to DMA by dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase (DDAH). Statistically significant increases in urinary DMA have been found in individuals after the consumption of fish and seafoods. The highest values were obtained for individuals that consumed coley, squid and whiting with cod, haddock, sardine, skate and swordfish (PMID: 18282650). It has also been identified as a uremic toxin according to the European Uremic Toxin Working Group (PMID: 22626821). As a pure chemical substance Dimethylamine is used as dehairing agent in tanning, in dyes, in rubber accelerators, in soaps and cleaning compounds and as an agricultural fungicide. In the body, DMA also undergoes nitrosation under weak acid conditions to give dimethlynitrosamine. Study has shown that DMA is a metabolite of Arthrobacter and Micrococcus (PMID: 11422368 ; PMID: 7191).",quantified,45.0837,45.057849229,liquid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'sweat', 'urine']",ROSDSFDQCJNGOL-UHFFFAOYSA-N
9,HMDB0000108,ethanol,C2H6O,"Ethanol is a clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in alcoholic beverages. Indeed, ethanol has widespread use as a solvent of substances intended for human contact or consumption, including scents, flavorings, colorings, and medicines. Ethanol has a depressive effect on the central nervous system and because of its psychoactive effects, it is considered a drug. Ethanol has a complex mode of action and affects multiple systems in the brain, most notably it acts as an agonist to the GABA receptors. Death from ethanol consumption is possible when blood alcohol level reaches 0.4%. A blood level of 0.5% or more is commonly fatal. Levels of even less than 0.1% can cause intoxication, with unconsciousness often occurring at 0.3-0.4 %. Ethanol is metabolized by the body as an energy-providing carbohydrate nutrient, as it metabolizes into acetyl CoA, an intermediate common with glucose metabolism, that can be used for energy in the citric acid cycle or for biosynthesis. Ethanol within the human body is converted into acetaldehyde by alcohol dehydrogenase and then into acetic acid by acetaldehyde dehydrogenase. The product of the first step of this breakdown, acetaldehyde, is more toxic than ethanol. Acetaldehyde is linked to most of the clinical effects of alcohol. It has been shown to increase the risk of developing cirrhosis of the liver,[77] multiple forms of cancer, and alcoholism. Industrially, ethanol is produced both as a petrochemical, through the hydration of ethylene, and biologically, by fermenting sugars with yeast. Small amounts of ethanol are endogenously produced by gut microflora through anaerobic fermentation. However most ethanol detected in biofluids and tissues likely comes from consumption of alcoholic beverages. Absolute ethanol or anhydrous alcohol generally refers to purified ethanol, containing no more than one percent water. Absolute alcohol is not intended for human consumption. It often contains trace amounts of toxic benzene (used to remove water by azeotropic distillation). Consumption of this form of ethanol can be fatal over a short time period. Generally absolute or pure ethanol is used as a solvent for lab and industrial settings where water will disrupt a desired reaction. Pure ethanol is classed as 200 proof in the USA and Canada, equivalent to 175 degrees proof in the UK system. Ethanol is a general biomarker for the consumption of alcohol. Ethanol is also a metabolite of Hansenula and Saccharomyces (PMID: 14613880) (https://ac.els-cdn.com/S0079635206800470/1-s2.0-S0079635206800470-main.pdf?_tid=4d340044-3230-4141-88dd-deec4d2e35bd&acdnat=1550288012_0c4a20fe963843426147979d376cf624).",quantified,46.0684,46.041864814,liquid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'sweat', 'urine']",LFQSCWFLJHTTHZ-UHFFFAOYSA-N
10,HMDB0000112,gamma-aminobutyric acid,C4H9NO2,"gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) is an inhibitory neurotransmitter found in the nervous systems of widely divergent species, including humans. It is the chief inhibitory neurotransmitter in the vertebrate central nervous system. In vertebrates, GABA acts at inhibitory synapses in the brain. It acts by binding to specific transmembrane receptors in the plasma membrane of both pre- and postsynaptic neurons. This binding causes the opening of ion channels to allow either the flow of negatively-charged chloride ions into the cell or positively-charged potassium ions out of the cell. This will typically result in a negative change in the transmembrane potential, usually causing hyperpolarization. Three general classes of GABA receptor are known (PMID: 10561820). These include GABA-A and GABA-C ionotropic receptors, which are ion channels themselves, and GABA-B metabotropic receptors, which are G protein-coupled receptors that open ion channels via intermediaries known as G proteins (PMID: 10561820). Activation of the GABA-B receptor by GABA causes neuronal membrane hyperpolarization and a resultant inhibition of neurotransmitter release. In addition to binding sites for GABA, the GABA-A receptor has binding sites for benzodiazepines, barbiturates, and neurosteroids. GABA-A receptors are coupled to chloride ion channels. Therefore, activation of the GABA-A receptor induces increased inward chloride ion flux, resulting in membrane hyperpolarization and neuronal inhibition (PMID: 10561820). After release into the synapse, free GABA that does not bind to either the GABA-A or GABA-B receptor complexes can be taken up by neurons and glial cells. Four different GABA membrane transporter proteins (GAT-1, GAT-2, GAT-3, and BGT-1), which differ in their distribution in the CNS, are believed to mediate the uptake of synaptic GABA into neurons and glial cells. The GABA-A receptor subtype regulates neuronal excitability and rapid changes in fear arousal, such as anxiety, panic, and the acute stress response (PMID: 10561820). Drugs that stimulate GABA-A receptors, such as the benzodiazepines and barbiturates, have anxiolytic and anti-seizure effects via GABA-A-mediated reduction of neuronal excitability, which effectively raises the seizure threshold. GABA-A antagonists produce convulsions in animals and there is decreased GABA-A receptor binding in a positron emission tomography (PET) study of patients with panic disorder. Neurons that produce GABA as their output are called GABAergic neurons and have chiefly inhibitory action at receptors in the vertebrate. Medium spiny neurons (MSNs) are a typical example of inhibitory CNS GABAergic cells. GABA has been shown to have excitatory roles in the vertebrate, most notably in the developing cortex. Organisms synthesize GABA from glutamate using the enzyme L-glutamic acid decarboxylase and pyridoxal phosphate as a cofactor (PMID: 12467378). It is worth noting that this involves converting the principal excitatory neurotransmitter (glutamate) into the principal inhibitory one (GABA). Drugs that act as agonists of GABA receptors (known as GABA analogs or GABAergic drugs), or increase the available amount of GABA typically have relaxing, anti-anxiety, and anti-convulsive effects. GABA is found to be deficient in cerebrospinal fluid and the brain in many studies of experimental and human epilepsy. Benzodiazepines (such as Valium) are useful in status epilepticus because they act on GABA receptors. GABA increases in the brain after administration of many seizure medications. Hence, GABA is clearly an antiepileptic nutrient. Inhibitors of GAM metabolism can also produce convulsions. Spasticity and involuntary movement syndromes, such as Parkinson's, Friedreich's ataxia, tardive dyskinesia, and Huntington's chorea, are all marked by low GABA when amino acid levels are studied. Trials of 2 to 3 g of GABA given orally have been effective in various epilepsy and spasticity syndromes. Agents that elevate GABA are also useful in lowering hypertension. Three grams orally have been effective in controlling blood pressure. GABA is decreased in various encephalopathies. GABA can reduce appetite and is decreased in hypoglycemics. GABA reduces blood sugar in diabetics. Chronic brain syndromes can also be marked by deficiencies of GABA. Vitamin B6, manganese, taurine, and lysine can increase both GABA synthesis and effects, while aspartic acid and glutamic acid probably inhibit GABA effects. Low plasma GABA has been reported in some depressed patients and may be a useful trait marker for mood disorders. GABA has an important role in embryonic development, especially facial development, as substantiated by the association of a cleft palate in transgenic mice deficient in GAD67 (glutamate decarboxylase). A recent Japanese population study reported linkage in patients with a nonsyndromic cleft lip with or without a cleft palate and specific GAD67 haplotypes (PMID: 23842532). Unusually high levels of GABA (especially in the brain) can be toxic and GABA can function as both a neurotoxin and a metabotoxin. A neurotoxin is a compound that damages the brain and/or nerve tissue. A metabotoxin is an endogenously produced metabolite that causes adverse health effects at chronically high levels. Chronically high levels of GABA are associated with at least five inborn errors of metabolism, including D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, 4-hydroxybutyric aciduria/succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency, GABA-transaminase deficiency, homocarnosinosis, and hyper beta-alaninemia. Nearly all of these conditions are associated with seizures, hypotonia, intellectual deficits, macrocephaly, encephalopathy, and other serious neurological or neuromuscular problems. Increased levels of GABA seem to alter the function of the GABA-B receptor, which may play a role in the tonic-clonic seizures that are often seen in patients with the above disorders. GABA is also a microbial metabolite, urinary GABA is produced by Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium (PMID: 24621061).",quantified,103.1198,103.063328537,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",BTCSSZJGUNDROE-UHFFFAOYSA-N
11,HMDB0000115,glycolic acid,C2H4O3,"Glycolic acid (or hydroxyacetic acid) is the smallest alpha-hydroxy acid (AHA). This colourless, odourless, and hygroscopic crystalline solid is highly soluble in water. Due to its excellent capability to penetrate skin, glycolic acid is often used in skin care products, most often as a chemical peel. It may reduce wrinkles, acne scarring, and hyperpigmentation and improve many other skin conditions, including actinic keratosis, hyperkeratosis, and seborrheic keratosis. Once applied, glycolic acid reacts with the upper layer of the epidermis, weakening the binding properties of the lipids that hold the dead skin cells together. This allows the outer skin to dissolve, revealing the underlying skin. It is thought that this is due to the reduction of calcium ion concentrations in the epidermis and the removal of calcium ions from cell adhesions, leading to desquamation. Glycolic acid is a known inhibitor of tyrosinase. This can suppress melanin formation and lead to a lightening of skin colour. Acute doses of glycolic acid on skin or eyes leads to local effects that are typical of a strong acid (e.g. dermal and eye irritation). Glycolate is a nephrotoxin if consumed orally. A nephrotoxin is a compound that causes damage to the kidney and kidney tissues. Glycolic acid's renal toxicity is due to its metabolism to oxalic acid. Glycolic and oxalic acid, along with excess lactic acid, are responsible for the anion gap metabolic acidosis. Oxalic acid readily precipitates with calcium to form insoluble calcium oxalate crystals. Renal tissue injury is caused by widespread deposition of oxalate crystals and the toxic effects of glycolic acid. Glycolic acid does exhibit some inhalation toxicity and can cause respiratory, thymus, and liver damage if present in very high levels over long periods of time. Elevated glycolic acid without elevated oxalic acid is most likely a result of GI yeast overgrowth (Aspergillus, Penicillium, probably Candida) or due to dietary sources containing glycerol (glycerine). (http://drweyrich.weyrich.com/labs/oat.html). Glycolic acid has also been found to be a metabolite in Acetobacter, Acidithiobacillus, Alcaligenes, Corynebacterium, Cryptococcus, Escherichia, Gluconobacter, Kluyveromyces, Leptospirillum, Pichia, Rhodococcus, Rhodotorula and Saccharomyces (PMID: 11758919; PMID: 26360870; PMID: 14390024).",quantified,76.0514,76.016043994,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'sweat', 'urine']",AEMRFAOFKBGASW-UHFFFAOYSA-N
12,HMDB0000118,homovanillic acid,C9H10O4,"Homovanillic acid (HVA), also known as homovanillate, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as methoxyphenols. Methoxyphenols are compounds containing a methoxy group attached to the benzene ring of a phenol moiety. HVA is also classified as a catechol.  HVA is a major catecholamine metabolite that is produced by a consecutive action of monoamine oxidase and catechol-O-methyltransferase on dopamine. HVA is typically elevated in patients with catecholamine-secreting tumors (such as neuroblastoma, pheochromocytoma, and other neural crest tumors). HVA levels are also used in monitoring patients who have been treated for these kinds tumors. HVA levels may also be altered in disorders of catecholamine metabolism such as monoamine oxidase-A (MOA) deficiency. MOA deficiency can cause decreased urinary HVA values, while a deficiency of dopamine beta-hydrolase (the enzyme that converts dopamine to norepinephrine) can cause elevated urinary HVA values. Within humans, HVA participates in a number of enzymatic reactions. In particular, HVA and pyrocatechol can be biosynthesized from 3,4-dihydroxybenzeneacetic acid and guaiacol. This reaction is catalyzed by the enzyme known as catechol O-methyltransferase. In addition, HVA can be biosynthesized from homovanillin through the action of the enzyme known aldehyde dehydrogenase. HVA has recently been found in a number of beers and appears to arise from the fermentation process (https://doi.org/10.1006/fstl.1999.0593). HVA is also a metabolite of Bifidobacterium (PMID: 24958563) and the bacterial breakdown of dietary flavonoids. Dietary flavonols commonly found in tomatoes, onions, and tea, can lead to significantly elevated levels of urinary HVA (PMID: 20933512). Likewise, the microbial digestion of hydroxytyrosol (found in olive oil) can also lead to elevated levels of HVA in humans (PMID: 11929304).",quantified,182.1733,182.057908808,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",QRMZSPFSDQBLIX-UHFFFAOYSA-N
13,HMDB0000121,folic acid,C19H19N7O6,"Folic acid or folate, is a vitamin that belongs to the class of compounds known as pterins. Chemically, folate consists of three distinct chemical moieties linked together. A pterin (2-amino-4-hydroxy-pteridine) linked by a methylene bridge to a p-aminobenzoyl group that in turn is linked through an amide linkage to glutamic acid. It is a member of the vitamin B family and is primarily known as vitamin B9. Folate is required for the body to make DNA and RNA and metabolize amino acids necessary for cell division for the hematopoietic system. As humans cannot make folate, it is required in the diet, making it an essential nutrient (i.e. a vitamin). Folate occurs naturally in many foods including mushrooms, spinach, yeast, green leaves, and grasses (poaceae). Folic acid, being biochemically inactive, is converted to tetrahydrofolic acid and methyltetrahydrofolate by the enzyme known as dihydrofolate reductase. Tetrahydrofolate and methyltetrahydrofolate are transported across cells by receptor-mediated endocytosis where they are needed to maintain normal erythropoiesis, synthesize purine and thymidylate nucleic acids, interconvert amino acids and generate formic acid. Folic acid is used in the treatment and prevention of folate deficiencies and megaloblastic anemia. Folic acid is also used as a supplement by women during pregnancy to reduce the risk of neural tube defects (NTDs) in babies. Low levels in early pregnancy are believed to be the cause of more than half of babies born with NTDs (PMID: 28097362). Folic acid is also a microbial metabolite produced by Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus (PMID: 22254078).",quantified,441.3975,441.139681375,solid,"['blood', 'cellular cytoplasm', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'urine']",OVBPIULPVIDEAO-LBPRGKRZSA-N
14,HMDB0000138,glycocholic acid,C26H43NO6,"Glycocholic acid is an acyl glycine and a bile acid-glycine conjugate. It is a secondary bile acid produced by the action of enzymes existing in the microbial flora of the colonic environment.  Bacteroides, Bifidobacterium, Clostridium and Lactobacillus are involved in bile acid metabolism and produce glycocholic acid (PMID: 6265737; 10629797). In hepatocytes, both primary and secondary bile acids undergo amino acid conjugation at the C-24 carboxylic acid on the side chain, and almost all bile acids in the bile duct therefore exist in a glycine conjugated form (PMID: 16949895). More specifically, glycocholic acid or cholylglycine, is a crystalline bile acid involved in the emulsification of fats. It occurs as a sodium salt in the bile of mammals. Its anion is called glycocholate. As the glycine conjugate of cholic acid, this compound acts as a detergent to solubilize fats for absorption and is itself absorbed (PubChem). Bile acids are steroid acids found predominantly in bile of mammals. The distinction between different bile acids is minute, depends only on presence or absence of hydroxyl groups on positions 3, 7, and 12. Bile acids are physiological detergents that facilitate excretion, absorption, and transport of fats and sterols in the intestine and liver. Bile acids are also steroidal amphipathic molecules derived from the catabolism of cholesterol. They modulate bile flow and lipid secretion, are essential for the absorption of dietary fats and vitamins, and have been implicated in the regulation of all the key enzymes involved in cholesterol homeostasis. Bile acids recirculate through the liver, bile ducts, small intestine and portal vein to form an enterohepatic circuit. They exist as anions at physiological pH and, consequently, require a carrier for transport across the membranes of the enterohepatic tissues. The unique detergent properties of bile acids are essential for the digestion and intestinal absorption of hydrophobic nutrients. Bile acids have potent toxic properties (e.g., membrane disruption) and there are a plethora of mechanisms to limit their accumulation in blood and tissues (PMID: 11316487, 16037564, 12576301, 11907135). Glycocholic acid is found to be associated with alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency, which is an inborn error of metabolism.",quantified,465.6227,465.309038113,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",RFDAIACWWDREDC-FRVQLJSFSA-N
15,HMDB0000142,formic acid,CH2O2,"Formic acid is the simplest carboxylic acid. Formate is an intermediate in normal metabolism. It takes part in the metabolism of one-carbon compounds and its carbon may appear in methyl groups undergoing transmethylation. It is eventually oxidized to carbon dioxide. Formate is typically produced as a byproduct in the production of acetate. It is responsible for both metabolic acidosis and disrupting mitochondrial electron transport and energy production by inhibiting cytochrome oxidase activity, the terminal electron acceptor of the electron transport chain. Cell death from cytochrome oxidase inhibition by formate is believed to result partly from depletion of ATP, reducing energy concentrations so that essential cell functions cannot be maintained. Furthermore, inhibition of cytochrome oxidase by formate may also cause cell death by increased production of cytotoxic reactive oxygen species (ROS) secondary to the blockade of the electron transport chain. In nature, formic acid is found in the stings and bites of many insects of the order Hymenoptera, including bees and ants. The principal use of formic acid is as a preservative and antibacterial agent in livestock feed. When sprayed on fresh hay or other silage, it arrests certain decay processes and causes the feed to retain its nutritive value longer. Urinary formate is produced by Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumonia, Enterobacter, Acinetobacter, Proteus mirabilis, Citrobacter frundii, Enterococcus faecalis, Streptococcus group B, Staphylococcus saprophyticus (PMID: 22292465).",quantified,46.0254,46.005479308,liquid,"['blood', 'breast milk', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'sweat', 'urine']",BDAGIHXWWSANSR-UHFFFAOYSA-N
16,HMDB0000190,l-lactic acid,C3H6O3,"Lactic acid is an organic acid. It is a chiral molecule, consisting of two optical isomers, L-lactic acid and D-lactic acid, with the L-isomer being the most common in living organisms. Lactic acid plays a role in several biochemical processes and is produced in the muscles during intense activity. In animals, L-lactate is constantly produced from pyruvate via the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in a process of fermentation during normal metabolism and exercise. It does not increase in concentration until the rate of lactate production exceeds the rate of lactate removal. This is governed by a number of factors, including monocarboxylate transporters, lactate concentration, the isoform of LDH, and oxidative capacity of tissues. The concentration of blood lactate is usually 1-2 mmol/L at rest, but can rise to over 20 mmol/L during intense exertion. There are some indications that lactate, and not glucose, is preferentially metabolized by neurons in the brain of several mammalian species, including mice, rats, and humans. Glial cells, using the lactate shuttle, are responsible for transforming glucose into lactate, and for providing lactate to the neurons. Lactate measurement in critically ill patients has been traditionally used to stratify patients with poor outcomes. However, plasma lactate levels are the result of a finely tuned interplay of factors that affect the balance between its production and its clearance. When the oxygen supply does not match its consumption, organisms adapt in many different ways, up to the point when energy failure occurs. Lactate, being part of the adaptive response, may then be used to assess the severity of the supply/demand imbalance. In such a scenario, the time to intervention becomes relevant: early and effective treatment may allow tissues and cells to revert to a normal state, as long as the oxygen machinery (i.e. mitochondria) is intact. Conversely, once the mitochondria are deranged, energy failure occurs even in the presence of normoxia. The lactate increase in critically ill patients may, therefore, be viewed as an early marker of a potentially reversible state (PMID: 16356243). When present in sufficiently high levels, lactic acid can act as an oncometabolite, an immunosuppressant, an acidogen, and a metabotoxin. An oncometabolite is a compound that promotes tumor growth and survival. An immunosuppressant reduces or arrests the activity of the immune system. An acidogen is an acidic compound that induces acidosis, which has multiple adverse effects on many organ systems. A metabotoxin is an endogenously produced metabolite that causes adverse health effects at chronically high levels. Chronically high levels of lactic acid are associated with at least a dozen inborn errors of metabolism, including 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyryl CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, biotinidase deficiency, fructose-1,6-diphosphatase deficiency, glycogen storage disease type 1A (GSD1A) or Von Gierke disease, glycogenosis type IB, glycogenosis type IC, glycogenosis type VI, Hers disease, lactic acidemia, Leigh syndrome, methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency, pyruvate decarboxylase E1 component deficiency, pyruvate dehydrogenase complex deficiency, pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency, and short chain acyl CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (SCAD deficiency). Locally high concentrations of lactic acid or lactate are found near many tumors due to the upregulation of lactate dehydrogenase (PMID: 15279558). Lactic acid produced by tumors through aerobic glycolysis acts as an immunosuppressant and tumor promoter (PMID: 23729358). Indeed, lactic acid has been found to be a key player or regulator in the development and malignant progression of a variety of cancers (PMID: 22084445). A number of studies have demonstrated that malignant transformation is associated with an increase in aerobic cellular lactate excretion. Lactate concentrations in various carcinomas (e.g. uterine cervix, head and neck, colorectal region) at first diagnosis of the disease, can be relatively low or extremely high (up to 40 µmol/g) in different individual tumors or within the same lesion (PMID: 15279558). High molar concentrations of lactate are correlated with a high incidence of distant metastasis. Low lactate tumors (< median of approximately 8 µmol/g) are associated with both an overall longer and disease-free survival compared to high lactate lesions (lactate > approximately 8 µmol/g). Lactate-induced secretion of hyaluronan by tumor-associated fibroblasts creates a milieu favourable for cell migration and metastases (PMID: 22084445). An acidic environment (pH 6-6.5), which is common in many tumors, allows tumor cells to evade the immune response, and therefore allows them to grow unchecked. Locally high concentrations of lactic acid are known to markedly impede the function of normal immune cells and will lead to a loss of T-cell function of human tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (PMID: 22084445). Lactic acid is also an organic acid and acts as a general acidogen. Abnormally high levels of organic acids in the blood (organic acidemia), urine (organic aciduria), the brain, and other tissues lead to general metabolic acidosis. Acidosis typically occurs when arterial pH falls below 7.35. In infants with acidosis, the initial symptoms include poor feeding, vomiting, loss of appetite, weak muscle tone (hypotonia), and lack of energy (lethargy). These can progress to heart abnormalities, kidney abnormalities, liver damage, seizures, coma, and possibly death. These are also the characteristic symptoms of the untreated IEMs mentioned above. Many affected children with organic acidemias experience intellectual disability or delayed development. Lactic acid is also a microbial metabolite, urinary lactic acid is produced by Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumonia, Enterobacter, Acinetobacter, Proteus mirabilis, Citrobacter frundii, Enterococcus faecalis, Streptococcus group B, Staphylococcus saprophyticus (PMID: 22292465), Bacillus, Corynebacterium, Rhizopus and Saccharomyces cerevisiae (PMID: 26360870).",quantified,90.0779,90.031694058,liquid,"['bile', 'blood', 'breast milk', 'cellular cytoplasm', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'sweat', 'urine']",JVTAAEKCZFNVCJ-REOHCLBHSA-N
17,HMDB0000197,indoleacetic acid,C10H9NO2,"Indoleacetic acid (IAA) is a breakdown product of tryptophan metabolism and is often produced by the action of bacteria in the mammalian gut. Higher levels of IAA are associated with bacteria from Clostridium species including C. stricklandii, C. lituseburense, C. subterminale, and C. putrefaciens (PMID: 12173102). IAA can be found in Agrobacterium, Azospirillum, Bacillus, Bradyrhizobium, Clostridium, Enterobacter, Pantoea, Pseudomonas, Rhizobium (PMID: 12173102, PMID: 17555270, PMID: 12147474, PMID: 19400643, PMID: 9450337, PMID: 21397014) (https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-1-4612-3084-7_7) (https://escholarship.org/uc/item/1bf1b5m3). Some endogenous production of IAA in mammalian tissues also occurs. It may be produced by the decarboxylation of tryptamine or the oxidative deamination of tryptophan. IAA frequently occurs at low levels in urine and has been found in elevated levels in the urine of patients with phenylketonuria (PMID: 13610897). IAA has also been identified as a uremic toxin according to the European Uremic Toxin Working Group (PMID: 22626821). Using material extracted from human urine, it was discovered by Kogl in 1933 that indoleacetic acid is also an important plant hormone (PMID: 13610897). Specifically, IAA is a member of the group of phytohormones called auxins. IAA is generally considered to be the most important native auxin. Plant cells synthesize IAA from tryptophan (Wikipedia). IAA and some derivatives can be oxidized by horseradish peroxidase (HRP) into cytotoxic species. IAA is only toxic after oxidative decarboxylation; the effect of IAA/HRP is thought to be due in part to the formation of methylene-oxindole, which may conjugate with DNA bases and protein thiols. IAA/HRP could be used as the basis for targeted cancer, a potential new role for plant auxins in cancer therapy (PMID: 11163327).",quantified,175.184,175.063328537,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",SEOVTRFCIGRIMH-UHFFFAOYSA-N
18,HMDB0000205,phenylpyruvic acid,C9H8O3,"Phenylpyruvic acid is a keto-acid that is an intermediate or catabolic byproduct of phenylalanine metabolism. It has a slight honey-like odor. Levels of phenylpyruvate are normally very low in blood or urine. High levels of phenylpyruvic acid can be found in the urine of individuals with phenylketonuria (PKU), an inborn error of metabolism. PKU is due to lack of the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH), so that phenylalanine is converted not to tyrosine but to phenylpyruvic acid. In particular, excessive phenylalanine can be metabolized into phenylketones through, a transaminase pathway route involving glutamate. Metabolites of this transamination reaction include phenylacetate, phenylpyruvate and phenethylamine. In persons with PKU, dietary phenylalanine either accumulates in the body or some of it is converted to phenylpyruvic acid. Individuals with PKU tend to excrete large quantities of phenylpyruvate, phenylacetate and phenyllactate, along with phenylalanine, in their urine. If untreated, mental retardation effects and microcephaly are evident by the first year along with other symptoms which include: unusual irritability, epileptic seizures and skin lesions. Hyperactivity, EEG abnormalities and seizures, and severe learning disabilities are major clinical problems later in life. A ""musty or mousy"" odor of skin, hair, sweat and urine (due to phenylacetate accumulation); and a tendency to hypopigmentation and eczema are also observed. The neural-development effects of PKU are primarily due to the disruption of neurotransmitter synthesis. In particular, phenylalanine is a large, neutral amino acid which moves across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) via the large neutral amino acid transporter (LNAAT). Excessive phenylalanine in the blood saturates the transporter. Thus, excessive levels of phenylalanine significantly decrease the levels of other LNAAs in the brain. But since these amino acids are required for protein and neurotransmitter synthesis, phenylalanine accumulation disrupts brain development, leading to mental retardation. Phenylpyruvic acid is also a microbial metabolite, it can be produced by Lactobacillus plantarum (PMID: 9687465).",quantified,164.158,164.047344122,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",BTNMPGBKDVTSJY-UHFFFAOYSA-N
19,HMDB0000208,oxoglutaric acid,C5H6O5,"Oxoglutaric acid, also known as alpha-ketoglutarate, alpha-ketoglutaric acid, AKG, or 2-oxoglutaric acid, is classified as a gamma-keto acid or a gamma-keto acid derivative. gamma-Keto acids are organic compounds containing an aldehyde substituted with a keto group on the C4 carbon atom. alpha-Ketoglutarate is considered to be soluble (in water) and acidic. alpha-Ketoglutarate is a key molecule in the TCA cycle, playing a fundamental role in determining the overall rate of this important metabolic process (PMID: 26759695). In the TCA cycle, AKG is decarboxylated to succinyl-CoA and carbon dioxide by AKG dehydrogenase, which functions as a key control point of the TCA cycle. Additionally, AKG can be generated from isocitrate by oxidative decarboxylation catalyzed by the enzyme known as isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH). In addition to these routes of production, AKG can be produced from glutamate by oxidative deamination via glutamate dehydrogenase, and as a product of pyridoxal phosphate-dependent transamination reactions (mediated by branched-chain amino acid transaminases) in which glutamate is a common amino donor. AKG is a nitrogen scavenger and a source of glutamate and glutamine that stimulates protein synthesis and inhibits protein degradation in muscles. In particular, AKG can decrease protein catabolism and increase protein synthesis to enhance bone tissue formation in skeletal muscles (PMID: 26759695). Interestingly, enteric feeding of AKG supplements can significantly increase circulating plasma levels of hormones such as insulin, growth hormone, and insulin-like growth factor-1 (PMID: 26759695). It has recently been shown that AKG can extend the lifespan of adult C. elegans by inhibiting ATP synthase and TOR (PMID: 24828042). In combination with molecular oxygen, alpha-ketoglutarate is required for the hydroxylation of proline to hydroxyproline in the production of type I collagen. A recent study has shown that alpha-ketoglutarate promotes TH1 differentiation along with the depletion of glutamine thereby favouring Treg (regulatory T-cell) differentiation (PMID: 26420908). alpha-Ketoglutarate has been found to be associated with fumarase deficiency, 2-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex deficiency, and D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, which are all inborn errors of metabolism (PMID: 8338207). Oxoglutaric acid has been found to be a metabolite produced by Corynebacterium and yeast (PMID: 27872963) (YMDB).",quantified,146.0981,146.021523302,solid,"['blood', 'breast milk', 'cellular cytoplasm', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",KPGXRSRHYNQIFN-UHFFFAOYSA-N
20,HMDB0000216,norepinephrine,C8H11NO3,"Norepinephrine is the precursor of epinephrine that is secreted by the adrenal medulla and is a widespread central and autonomic neurotransmitter. Norepinephrine is the principal transmitter of most postganglionic sympathetic fibers and of the diffuse projection system in the brain arising from the locus ceruleus. It is also found in plants and is used pharmacologically as a sympathomimetic. Norepinephrine is elevated in the urine of people who consume bananas. Norepinephrine is also a microbial metabolite; urinary noradrenaline is produced by Escherichia, Bacillus, and Saccharomyces (PMID: 24621061). Norepinephrine is found in alcoholic beverages, banana peels and pulp (Musa paradisiaca), red plum fruit (Prunus domestica), orange pulp (Citrus sinensis), potato tubers (Solanum tuberosum), and whole purslane (Portulaca oleracea). P. oleracea is the richest of these sources. Norepinephrine has also been identified as a uremic toxin according to the European Uremic Toxin Working Group (PMID: 22626821).",quantified,169.1778,169.073893223,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'urine']",SFLSHLFXELFNJZ-QMMMGPOBSA-N
21,HMDB0000228,phenol,C6H6O,"Phenol, is a toxic, colourless crystalline solid with a sweet tarry odor that resembles a hospital smell. It is commonly used as an antiseptic and disinfectant. It is active against a wide range of micro-organisms including some fungi and viruses, but is only slowly effective against spores. It has been used to disinfect skin and to relieve itching. Phenol is also used in the preparation of cosmetics including sunscreens, hair dyes, and skin lightening preparations. It is also used in the production of drugs (it is the starting material in the industrial production of aspirin), weedkillers, and synthetic resins. Phenol can be found in areas with high levels of motor traffic, therefore, people living in crowded urban areas are frequently exposed to traffic-derived phenol vapor. The average (mean +/- SD) phenol concentration in urine among normal individuals living in urban areas is 7.4 +/- 2.2 mg/g of creatinine. Exposure of the skin to concentrated phenol solutions causes chemical burns which may be severe; in laboratories where it is used, it is usually recommended that polyethylene glycol solution is kept available for washing off splashes. Notwithstanding the effects of concentrated solutions, it is also used in cosmetic surgery as an exfoliant, to remove layers of dead skin (Wikipedia). In some bacteria phenol can be directly synthesized from tyrosine via the enzyme tyrosine phenol-lyase [EC:4.1.99.2]. It can be produced by Escherichia and Pseudomonas. Phenol has been identified as a uremic toxin according to the European Uremic Toxin Working Group (PMID: 22626821).",quantified,94.1112,94.041864814,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'sweat', 'urine']",ISWSIDIOOBJBQZ-UHFFFAOYSA-N
22,HMDB0000237,propionic acid,C3H6O2,"Propionic acid (PA) is an organic acid. It exists a clear liquid with a pungent and unpleasant smell somewhat resembling body odor. Propionic acid (PA) is widely used as an antifungal agent in food. It is present naturally at low levels in dairy products and occurs ubiquitously, together with other short-chain fatty acids (SCFA), in the gastro-intestinal tract of humans and other mammals as an end-product of the microbial digestion of carbohydrates. The metabolism of propionic acid begins with its conversion to propionyl coenzyme A, the usual first step in the metabolism of carboxylic acids. Since propionic acid has three carbons, propionyl-CoA cannot directly enter either beta oxidation or the citric acid cycles. In most vertebrates, propionyl-CoA is carboxylated to D-methylmalonyl-CoA, which is isomerised to L-methylmalonyl-CoA. Propionic acid has significant physiological activity in animals. Propionic acid is irritant but produces no acute systemic effects and has no demonstrable genotoxic potential (PMID 1628870). The human skin is host of several species of bacteria known as Propionibacteria, which are named after their ability to produce propionic acid. The most notable one is the Cutibacterium acnes (formerly known as Propionibacterium acnes), which lives mainly in the sebaceous glands of the skin and is one of the principal causes of acne. Propionic aciduria is one of the most frequent organic acidurias, a disease that comprise many various disorders. The outcome of patients born with Propionic aciduria is poor intellectual development patterns, with 60% having an IQ less than 75 and requiring special education. Successful liver and/or renal transplantations, in a few patients, have resulted in better quality of life but have not necessarily prevented neurological and various visceral complications. These results emphasize the need for permanent metabolic follow-up whatever the therapeutic strategy (PMID 15868474). Decreased early mortality, less severe symptoms at diagnosis, and more favorable short-term neurodevelopmental outcome were recorded in patients identified through expanded newborn screening. (PMID 16763906)‚Üµ When propionic acid is infused directly into rodents' brains, it produces hyperactivity, dystonia, social impairment, perseveration and brain changes (e.g., innate neuroinflammation, glutathione depletion) that may be used as a means to model autism in rats. Propionic acid is a metabolite of Bacteroides, Clostridium, Dialister, Megasphaera, Phascolarctobacterium, Propionibacterium, Propionigenum, Salmonella, Selenomonas and Veillonella (https://www.mdpi.com/2311-5637/3/2/21).",quantified,74.0785,74.036779436,liquid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",XBDQKXXYIPTUBI-UHFFFAOYSA-N
23,HMDB0000243,pyruvic acid,C3H4O3,"Pyruvic acid or pyruvate is a simple alpha-keto acid. It is a three-carbon molecule containing a carboxylic acid group and a ketone functional group. Pyruvate is the simplest alpha-keto acid and according to official nomenclature by IUPAC, it is called alpha-keto propanoic acid. Like other keto acids, pyruvic acid can tautomerize from its ketone form to its enol form, containing a double bond and an alcohol. Pyruvate is found in all living organisms ranging from bacteria to plants to humans. It is intermediate compound in the metabolism of carbohydrates, proteins, and fats. Pyruvate is a key intermediate in several metabolic pathways throughout the cell. In particular, pyruvic acid can be made from glucose through glycolysis, converted back to carbohydrates (such as glucose) via gluconeogenesis, or to fatty acids through a reaction with acetyl-CoA. Pyruvic acid supplies energy to cells through the citric acid cycle (TCA or Krebs cycle) when oxygen is present (aerobic respiration), and alternatively ferments to produce lactate when oxygen is lacking (lactic acid). In glycolysis, phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) is converted to pyruvate by pyruvate kinase. This reaction is strongly exergonic and irreversible. In gluconeogenesis, it takes two enzymes, pyruvate carboxylase and PEP carboxykinase, to catalyze the reverse transformation of pyruvate to PEP. Pyruvic acid is also a metabolite of Corynebacterium (PMID: 27872963).",quantified,88.0621,88.016043994,liquid,"['blood', 'breast milk', 'cellular cytoplasm', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'sweat', 'urine']",LCTONWCANYUPML-UHFFFAOYSA-N
24,HMDB0000254,succinic acid,C4H6O4,"Succinic acid (succinate) is a dicarboxylic acid. It is an important component of the citric acid or TCA cycle and is capable of donating electrons to the electron transfer chain. Succinate is found in all living organisms ranging from bacteria to plants to mammals. In eukaryotes, succinate is generated in the mitochondria via the tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA). Succinate can readily be imported into the mitochondrial matrix by the n-butylmalonate- (or phenylsuccinate-) sensitive dicarboxylate carrier in exchange with inorganic phosphate or another organic acid, e. g. malate (PMID 16143825). Succinate can exit the mitochondrial matrix and function in the cytoplasm as well as the extracellular space. Succinate has multiple biological roles including roles as a metabolic intermediate and roles as a cell signalling molecule. Succinate can alter gene expression patterns, thereby modulating the epigenetic landscape or it can exhibit hormone-like signaling functions (PMID: 26971832). As such, succinate links cellular metabolism, especially ATP formation, to the regulation of cellular function. Succinate can be broken down or metabolized into fumarate by the enzyme succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), which is part of the electron transport chain involved in making ATP. Dysregulation of succinate synthesis, and therefore ATP synthesis, can happen in a number of genetic mitochondrial diseases, such as Leigh syndrome, and Melas syndrome. Succinate has been found to be associated with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, which is an inborn error of metabolism. Succinic acid has recently been identified as an oncometabolite or an endogenous, cancer causing metabolite. High levels of this organic acid can be found in tumors or biofluids surrounding tumors. Its oncogenic action appears to due to its ability to inhibit prolyl hydroxylase-containing enzymes. In many tumours, oxygen availability becomes limited (hypoxia) very quickly due to rapid cell proliferation and limited blood vessel growth. The major regulator of the response to hypoxia is the HIF transcription factor (HIF-alpha). Under normal oxygen levels, protein levels of HIF-alpha are very low due to constant degradation, mediated by a series of post-translational modification events catalyzed by the prolyl hydroxylase domain-containing enzymes PHD1, 2 and 3, (also known as EglN2, 1 and 3) that hydroxylate HIF-alpha and lead to its degradation. All three of the PHD enzymes are inhibited by succinate. In humans, urinary succinic acid is produced by Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumonia, Enterobacter, Acinetobacter, Proteus mirabilis, Citrobacter frundii, Enterococcus faecalis (PMID: 22292465). Succinic acid is also found in Actinobacillus, Anaerobiospirillum, Mannheimia, Corynebacterium and Basfia (PMID: 22292465; PMID: 18191255; PMID: 26360870).",quantified,118.088,118.02660868,solid,"['blood', 'breast milk', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'sweat', 'urine']",KDYFGRWQOYBRFD-UHFFFAOYSA-N
25,HMDB0000259,serotonin,C10H12N2O,"Serotonin or 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) is a molecule that belongs to the class of compounds known as indoleamines. An indoleamine consists of an indole ring that bears an amino group or an alkyl amino group attached to the indole ring. Serotonin has an aminoethyl at position 2 and a hydroxyl group at position 5 of the indole ring. Serotonin exists in all living organisms, ranging from bacteria to plants to humans. In mammals, serotonin functions as a monoamine neurotransmitter, a biochemical messenger and regulator. It is synthesized from the essential amino acid L-Tryptophan. Approximately 90% of the human body's total serotonin is located in the enterochromaffin cells in the GI tract, where it regulates intestinal movements. About 8% is found in platelets and 1‚Äì2% in the CNS. Serotonin in the nervous system acts as a local transmitter at synapses, and as a paracrine or hormonal modulator of circuits upon diffusion, allowing a wide variety of ""state-dependent"" behavioral responses to different stimuli. Serotonin is widely distributed in the nervous system of vertebrates and invertebrates and some of its behavioral effects have been preserved along evolution. Such is the case of aggressive behavior and rhythmic motor patterns, including those responsible for feeding.  In vertebrates, which display a wider and much more sophisticated behavioral repertoire, serotonin also modulates sleep, the arousal state, sexual behavior, and others. Deficiencies of the serotonergic system causes disorders such as depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, phobias, posttraumatic stress disorder, epilepsy, and generalized anxiety disorder. Serotonin has three different modes of action in the nervous system: as transmitter, acting locally at synaptic boutons; upon diffusion at a distance from its release sites, producing paracrine (also called volume) effects, and by circulating in the blood stream, producing hormonal effects. The three modes can affect a single neuronal circuit. (PMID: 16047543). Serotonin is also a microbial metabolite that can be found in the feces and urine of mammals. Urinary serotonin is produced by Candida, Streptococcus, Escherichia, and Enterococcus (PMID: 24621061). In plants, serotonin was first found and reported in a legume called Mucuna pruriens. The greatest concentration of serotonin in plants has been found in walnuts and hickory. In pineapples, banana, kiwi fruit, plums and tomatoes the concentration of serotonin is around 3 to 30 mg/kg.",quantified,176.2151,176.094963016,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'urine']",QZAYGJVTTNCVMB-UHFFFAOYSA-N
26,HMDB0000306,tyramine,C8H11NO,"Tyramine is a monoamine compound derived from the amino acid tyrosine. Tyramine is metabolized by the enzyme monoamine oxidase. In foods, it is often produced by the decarboxylation of tyrosine during fermentation or decay. Foods containing considerable amounts of tyramine include fish, chocolate, alcoholic beverages, cheese, soy sauce, sauerkraut, and processed meat. A large dietary intake of tyramine can cause an increase in systolic blood pressure of 30 mmHg or more. Tyramine acts as a neurotransmitter via a G protein-coupled receptor with high affinity for tyramine called TA1. The TA1 receptor is found in the brain as well as peripheral tissues including the kidney. An indirect sympathomimetic, Tyramine can also serve as a substrate for adrenergic uptake systems and monoamine oxidase so it prolongs the actions of adrenergic transmitters. It also provokes transmitter release from adrenergic terminals. Tyramine is a biomarker for the consumption of cheese",quantified,137.179,137.084063979,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",DZGWFCGJZKJUFP-UHFFFAOYSA-N
27,HMDB0000337,"(s)-3,4-dihydroxybutyric acid",C4H8O4,"3,4-Dihydroxybutyric acid (also known as 3,4-Dihydroxybutanoic acid or 3,4-DB, or 2-deoxytetronic acid, or 2-DTA) is a normal human urinary metabolite that is excreted in increased concentration in patients with succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH) deficiency (PMID 12127325), which is a genetic disorder. SSADH deficiency is caused by an enzyme deficiency in GABA degradation. The most constant features with this disease are developmental delay, hypotonia and intellectual disability. Nearly half of SSADH patients exhibit ataxia, behavioral problems, seizures, and hyporeflexia. Normal adults excrete 0.37 +/- 0.15 (SD) mmoles of 3,4-dihydroxybutyrate per 24 hr. 3,4-dihydroxybutyrate is also detectable in blood. The renal clearance of 3,4-dihydroxybutyrate is roughly equal that of creatinine. 3,4-dihydroxybutyric acid has also been found in foods and is believed to be formed via the degradation (cooking) of di- and poly-saccharides (PMID: 1167165).  3,4-Dihydroxybutyric acid is believed to play a role in satiety or the feeling of fullness and suppresses food intake (PMID: 3191387; PMID: 6720928). 3,4-dihydroxybutyric acid is also elevated in the serum of individuals with dementia and may even serve as a predictive biomarker for dementia (PMID: 25177334). 3,4-Dihydroxybutyric acid is also a metabolite produced in Escherichia (PMID: 28342964).",quantified,120.1039,120.042258744,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'urine']",DZAIOXUZHHTJKN-UHFFFAOYSA-N
28,HMDB0000375,3-(3-hydroxyphenyl)propanoic acid,C9H10O3,"3-(3-Hydroxyphenyl)propanoic (hMPP) acid is one of the major metabolites of ingested caffeic acid (PMID: 15479001) and of the phenolic degradation products of proanthocyanidins (the most abundant polyphenol present in chocolate) by the microflora in the colon (PMID: 12663291). mHPP is suspected to have antioxidants properties and is actively absorbed by the monocarboxylic acid transporter (MCT) in intestinal Caco-2 cell monolayers (PMID: 15479001, 12663291). hMPP has been found to be a metabolite of Clostridium, Escherichia, and Eubacterium (PMID: 28393285, 19520845). 3-(3-Hydroxyphenyl)propanoic acid is a flavonoid metabolite. 3-(3-Hydroxyphenyl)propanoic acid is a phenolic acid metabolite formed by the gut microflora detected after the consumption of whole grain.",quantified,166.1739,166.062994186,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",QVWAEZJXDYOKEH-UHFFFAOYSA-N
29,HMDB0000387,3-hydroxydodecanoic acid,C12H24O3,"3-Hydroxydodecanoic acid (CAS: 1883-13-2) is a medium-chain fatty acid associated with fatty acid metabolic disorders (PMID: 11948802). Deficiency of medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase is characterized by an intolerance to prolonged fasting, recurrent episodes of hypoglycemic coma with medium-chain dicarboxylic aciduria, impaired ketogenesis, and low plasma and tissue carnitine levels (OMIM: 201450). 3-Hydroxydodecanoic acid is also a microbial metabolite found in Acinetobacter, Moraxella, and Pseudomonas (PMID: 21687748). 3-Hydroxydodecanoic acid has been identified in the human placenta (PMID: 32033212).",quantified,216.321,216.172544633,solid,"['blood', 'feces']",MUCMKTPAZLSKTL-NSHDSACASA-N
30,HMDB0000402,2-isopropylmalic acid,C7H12O5,"2-Isopropylmalic acid (CAS: 3237-44-3), also known as 3-carboxy-3-hydroxyisocaproic acid, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as hydroxy fatty acids. These are fatty acids in which the chain bears a hydroxyl group. 2-Isopropylmalic acid is a very hydrophobic molecule, practically insoluble (in water), and relatively neutral. 2-Isopropylmalic acid is an alpha-hydroxy organic acid regularly occurring in the urine of healthy individuals (PMID: 2338430, 544608), and in hemofiltrates (PMID: 7251751). 2-Isopropylmalic acid is elevated during fasting and diabetic ketoacidosis (PMID: 1591279). It is also a metabolite found in Acetobacter (PMID: 6035258).",quantified,176.1672,176.068473494,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",BITYXLXUCSKTJS-ZETCQYMHSA-N
31,HMDB0000423,"3,4-dihydroxyhydrocinnamic acid",C9H10O4,"3,4-Dihydroxyhydrocinnamic acid, also known as dihydrocaffeic acid (DHCA), is a metabolite product of the hydrogenation of caffeoylquinic acids, occurring in normal human biofluids, with potent antioxidant properties. DHCA has been detected in human plasma following coffee ingestion (PMID: 15607645) and is increased with some dietary sources, such as after ingestion of phenolic constituents of artichoke leaf extract (PMID: 15693705). Polyphenol-rich foods such as vegetables and fruits have been shown to significantly improve platelet function in ex vivo studies in humans (PMID: 16038718). Its antioxidant activity has been tested to reduce ferric iron in the ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) assay, and it has been suggested that its catechol structure conveys the antioxidant effect in plasma and in erythrocytes (PMID: 11768243). 3,4-Dihydroxyhydrocinnamic acid is a microbial metabolite found in Bifidobacterium, Escherichia, Lactobacillus, and Clostridium (PMID: 28393285).",quantified,182.1733,182.057908808,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",DZAUWHJDUNRCTF-UHFFFAOYSA-N
32,HMDB0000426,citramalic acid,C5H8O5,"Citramalic acid, also known as 2-Methylmalic acid, is an analog of malic acid. The structure of citramalic acid is similar to the structure of malic acid except it has an extra CH3 group on position 2. It is also classified as a 2-hydroxydicarboxylic acid. Citramalic acid exists in two isomers, L-citramalic acid and D-citramalic acid.  The L-isomer is more biologically relevant isomer. Citramalic acid is found in almost all living organisms from microbes to plants to humans although citramalate is primarily produced from bacteria. L-citramalic acid was first isolated from the peel of apples in 1954 (PMID: 13160011). It has also been isolated in wine and other ripening fruit (PMID: 13807713). Citramalic acid can inhibit the production of malic acid. Citramalic acid is also an important microbial metabolite and has been found to be a byproduct of Saccharomyces yeast species, as well as Propionibacterium acnes and Aspergillus niger (PMID: 31827810) (http://drweyrich.weyrich.com/labs/oat.html) (PMID: 7628083). Citramalic acid is a component of the C5-branched dibasic acid metabolism pathway. It can be broken down by the enzyme citramalate lyase, which converts citramalate to acetate and pyruvate. Citramalate synthase is an enzyme found in bacteria that synthesizes citramalic acid from acetyl-CoA, pyruvate and water. Citramalic acid may have a useful role in medical diagnoses. It has been found in the urine of two brothers with autistic features (PMID: 7628083). Citramalic acid can also be used as a urinary marker for gut dysbiosis (PMID: 31669633). Dysbiosis is a disorder of the bacterial flora of the human digestive tract. It is usually diagnosed clinically by direct detection of an abnormal pattern of the intestinal microbiota.",quantified,148.114,148.037173366,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",XFTRTWQBIOMVPK-UHFFFAOYSA-N
33,HMDB0000440,3-hydroxyphenylacetic acid,C8H8O3,"3-Hydroxyphenylacetic acid is a rutin metabolite and an antioxidant. It has a protective biological activity in human. It is a substrate of enzyme 4-hydroxyphenylacetate 3-monooxygenase [EC 1.14.13.3] in the pathway tyrosine metabolism (KEGG, PMID 155437). 3-Hydroxyphenylacetic acid is found to be associated with phenylketonuria, which is an inborn error of metabolism. It is also a marker of gut Clostridium species. Higher levels are associated with higher levels of Clostridia (PMID: 27123458). 3-Hydroxyphenylacetic acid can also be found in Klebsiella (PMID: 1851804).",quantified,152.1473,152.047344122,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",FVMDYYGIDFPZAX-UHFFFAOYSA-N
34,HMDB0000448,adipic acid,C6H10O4,"Adipic acid is an important inudstrial dicarboxylic acid with about 2.5 billion kilograms produced per year. It is used mainly in the production of nylon. It occurs relatively rarely in nature. It has a tart taste and is also used as an additive and gelling agent in jello or gelatins. It is also used in some calcium carbonate antacids to make them tart. Adipic acid has also been incorporated into controlled-release formulation matrix tablets to obtain pH-independent release for both weakly basic and weakly acidic drugs. Adipic acid in the urine and in the blood is typically exogenous in origin and is a good biomarker of jello consumption. In fact, a condition known as adipic aciduria is actually an artifact of jello consumption (PMID: 1779643). However, certain disorders (such as diabetes and glutaric aciduria type I.) can lead to elevated levels of adipic acid snd other dicarboxcylic acids (such as suberic acid) in urine (PMID: 17520433; PMID: 6778884). Moreover, adipic acid is also found to be associated with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA lyase deficiency, carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency, malonyl-Coa decarboxylase deficiency, and medium Chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, which are inborn errors of metabolism. Adipic acid is also microbial metabolite found in Escherichia.",quantified,146.1412,146.057908808,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",WNLRTRBMVRJNCN-UHFFFAOYSA-N
35,HMDB0000462,allantoin,C4H6N4O3,"Allantoin is a diureide of glyoxylic acid with the chemical formula C4H6N4O3. It is also called 5-ureidohydantoin or glyoxyldiureide. It is a product of the oxidation of uric acid. It is also a product of purine metabolism in most mammals except for higher apes, and it is present in their urine. In humans, uric acid is excreted instead of allantoin. The presence of allantoin in the urine can be an indication of microbial overgrowth or it can be created via non-enzymatic means through high levels of reactive oxygen species. In this regard, allantoin is sometimes used as a marker of oxidative stress. Allantoin can be isolated from cow urine or as a botanical extract of the comfrey plant. It has long been used for its healing, soothing, and anti-irritating properties. Allantoin helps to heal wounds and skin irritations and stimulates the growth of healthy tissue. Allantoin can be found in anti-acne products, sun care products, and clarifying lotions because of its ability to help heal minor wounds and promote healthy skin. Allantoin is frequently present in toothpaste, mouthwash, and other oral hygiene products as well as in shampoos, lipsticks, various cosmetic lotions and creams, and other cosmetic and pharmaceutical products. It is also a metabolite of Bacillus (PMID: 18302748) and Streptomyces (PMID: 24292080).",quantified,158.1154,158.043990078,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",POJWUDADGALRAB-UHFFFAOYSA-N
36,HMDB0000466,3-methylindole,C9H9N,"3-Methylindole, or skatole, belongs to the indole family and has a methyl substituent in position 3 of the indole ring. It occurs naturally in feces, beets, and coal tar, and has a strong fecal odor. Its name is derived from skato, the Greek word for dung. It exists as a white crystalline or fine powder solid, and it browns upon aging. 3-Methylindole is produced from tryptophan in the mammalian digestive tract where tryptophan is converted to indoleacetic acid, which decarboxylates to give the methylindole. These reactions are largely driven by the microbiota in the digestive tract. 3-Methylindole is soluble in alcohol and benzene and it gives violet color in potassium ferrocyanide (K4Fe(CN)6.3H2O) mixed with sulfuric acid (H2SO4). Skatole has a double ring system which displays aromaticity that comes from the lone pair electrons on the nitrogen. It is continuous (all atoms in the ring are sp2 hybridized), planar, and follows the 4n+2 rule because it has 10 pi electrons. In a 1994 report released by five top cigarette companies, skatole was listed as one of the 599 additives to cigarettes. This is because in low concentrations skatole has a flowery smell and is found in several flowers and essential oils, including those of orange blossoms, jasmine, and Ziziphus mauritiana. As a result, skatole/3-methylindole is used as a fragrance and fixative in many perfumes and as a general aroma compound for other applications. 3-Methylindole has been found to be a bacterial metabolite of members of the Clostridium (PMID: 18223109) and Lactobacillus (PMID: 16345702) families. Skatole functions as an insect attractant and is one of many compounds that are attractive to males of various species of orchid bees, which apparently gather the chemical to synthesize pheromones; it is commonly used as bait for these bees for study (PMID: 12647866). It is also known for being an attractant for the Tasmanian grass grub beetle (Aphodius tasmaniae). Skatole has also been shown to be an attractant to gravid mosquitoes in both field and laboratory conditions (PMID: 24242053).",quantified,131.1745,131.073499293,solid,"['feces', 'saliva']",ZFRKQXVRDFCRJG-UHFFFAOYSA-N
37,HMDB0000484,vanillic acid,C8H8O4,"Vanillic acid is a phenolic acid found in some forms of vanilla and many other plant extracts. It is a flavouring and scent agent that produces a pleasant, creamy odour. It is the intermediate product in the two-step bioconversion of ferulic acid to vanillin (J Biotechnol 1996;50(2-3):107-13). Vanillic acid, which is a chlorogenic acid, is an oxidized form of vanillin. It is also an intermediate in the production of vanillin from ferulic acid. Vanillic acid is a metabolic byproduct of caffeic acid and is often found in the urine of humans who have consumed coffee, chocolate, tea, and vanilla-flavoured confectionary. Vanillic acid selectively and specifically inhibits 5'nucleotidase activity (PMID: 16899266). Vanillic acid is a microbial metabolite found in Amycolatopsis, Delftia, and Pseudomonas (PMID: 11152072, 10543794, 11728709, 9579070).",quantified,168.148,168.042258738,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",WKOLLVMJNQIZCI-UHFFFAOYSA-N
38,HMDB0000500,4-hydroxybenzoic acid,C7H6O3,"4-Hydroxybenzoic acid, also known as p-hydroxybenzoate or 4-carboxyphenol, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as hydroxybenzoic acid derivatives. Hydroxybenzoic acid derivatives are compounds containing a hydroxybenzoic acid (or a derivative), which is a benzene ring bearing a carboxyl and a hydroxyl groups. 4-Hydroxybenzoic acid is a white crystalline solid that is slightly soluble in water and chloroform but more soluble in polar organic solvents such as alcohols and acetone. It is a nutty and phenolic tasting compound. 4-Hydroxybenzoic acid exists in all living species, ranging from bacteria to plants to humans. 4-Hydroxybenzoic acid can be found naturally in coconut. It is one of the main catechins metabolites found in humans after consumption of green tea infusions. It is also found in wine, in vanilla, in A√ßa√≠ oil, obtained from the fruit of the a√ßa√≠ palm (Euterpe oleracea), at relatively high concetrations (892¬±52 mg/kg). It is also found in cloudy olive oil and in the edible mushroom Russula virescens. It has been detected in red huckleberries, rabbiteye blueberries, and corianders and in a lower concentration in olives, red raspberries, and almonds. In humans, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid is involved in ubiquinone biosynthesis. In particular, the enzyme 4-hydroxybenzoate polyprenyltransferase uses a polyprenyl diphosphate and 4-hydroxybenzoate to produce diphosphate and 4-hydroxy-3-polyprenylbenzoate. This enzyme participates in ubiquinone biosynthesis. 4-Hydroxybenzoic acid can be biosynthesized by the enzyme Chorismate lyase. Chorismate lyase is an enzyme that transforms chorismate into 4-hydroxybenzoate and pyruvate. This enzyme catalyses the first step in ubiquinone biosynthesis in Escherichia coli and other Gram-negative bacteria. 4-Hydroxybenzoate is an intermediate in many enzyme-mediated reactions in microbes. For instance, the enzyme 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde dehydrogenase uses 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde, NAD+ and H2O to produce 4-hydroxybenzoate, NADH and H+. This enzyme participates in toluene and xylene degradation in bacteria such as Pseudomonas mendocina. 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde dehydrogenase is also found in carrots. The enzyme 4-hydroxybenzoate 1-hydroxylase transforms 4-hydroxybenzoate, NAD(P)H, 2 H+ and O2 into hydroquinone, NAD(P)+, H2O and CO2. This enzyme participates in 2,4-dichlorobenzoate degradation and is found in Candida parapsilosis. The enzyme 4-hydroxybenzoate 3-monooxygenase transforms 4-hydroxybenzoate, NADPH, H+ and O2 into protocatechuate, NADP+ and H2O. This enzyme participates in benzoate degradation via hydroxylation and 2,4-dichlorobenzoate degradation and is found in Pseudomonas putida and Pseudomonas fluorescens. 4-Hydroxybenzoic acid is a popular antioxidant in part because of its low toxicity. 4-Hydroxybenzoic acid has estrogenic activity both in vitro and in vivo (PMID 9417843).",quantified,138.122,138.031694053,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'sweat', 'urine']",FJKROLUGYXJWQN-UHFFFAOYSA-N
39,HMDB0000577,5beta-coprostanol,C27H48O,"Coprosterol or coprostanol is a cholesterol derivative found in human feces, gallstones, eggs, and other biological matter. Coprosterol is the odorous principle of feces. It is formed from the biohydrogenation of cholesterol (cholest-5en-3&#946;-ol) in the gut of most higher animals and birds. This compound has frequently been used as a biomarker for the presence of human faecal matter in the environment. American physician Austin Flint named it stercorin (Wikipedia). The transformation of cholesterol into coprosterol in its passage through the body involves a reduction of the C5:C6 double bond, and a transition from the allocholanic- to the cholanic-ring system. Although it is established that the bacterial flora of the intestine is concerned in the reduction process, the mechanism by which the stereochemical change is brought about is unknown. Current data suggests that cholestenone and coprostanone, and not cholesterol itself, are the immediate precursors of coprosterol which is formed from them in the intestine by bacterial reduction. Coprosterol is also a microbial metabolite, it can be produced by Lactobacillus (PMID: 20338415).",detected,388.6694,388.370516158,solid,['feces'],QYIXCDOBOSTCEI-NWKZBHTNSA-N
40,HMDB0000621,d-ribulose,C5H10O5,"D-Ribulose (CAS: 488-84-6) is a ketopentose - a monosaccharide containing five carbon atoms, including a ketone functional group. D-Ribulose is an intermediate in the fungal pathway for D-arabitol production. As the 1,5-bisphosphate, it combines with CO2 at the start of the photosynthetic process in green plants (carbon dioxide trap). D-Ribulose is the epimer of D-xylulose (Wikipedia). Ribulose is also a microbial metabolite found in Acetobacter and Gluconobacter (PMID: 16232643, 11272814).",detected,150.13,150.052823422,solid,['feces'],LQXVFWRQNMEDEE-UOWFLXDJSA-N
41,HMDB0000646,l-arabinose,C5H10O5,"L-Arabinose (CAS: 5328-37-0) belongs to the class of compounds known as aldopentoses. An aldopentose is a monosaccharide containing five carbon atoms, including an aldehyde (CHO) functional group. Arabinose gets its name from gum arabic, from which it was first isolate. Most saccharides found in nature are in the ""D""-form, however, L-arabinose is in fact more common than D-arabinose. L-arabinose is found in nature as a component of biopolymers such as hemicellulose and pectin. L-arabinose is found in all organisms from bacteria to plants to animals. Arabinose is the second most abundant pentose in lignocellulosic biomass after xylose. There are two different arabinose utilization pathways in nature: bacterial and fungal. The bacterial pathway converts arabinose into xylulose-5-P via ribulose-5-P using three enzymes (L-arabinose isomerase, L-ribulokinase, and L-ribulose-5-P 4-epimerase) after which it enters the pentose phosphate pathway for ethanol production. The fungal pathway converts arabinose into L-arabinitol by aldose reductase (AR) or XR, L-xylulose by L-arabinitol 4-dehydrogenase (LAD), xylitol by L-xylulose reductase (LXR), D-xylulose by xylulose dehydrogenase (XDH), and D-xylulose-5-P by xylulose kinase (XK), and lastly enters the nonoxidative pentose phosphate pathway for further metabolism.  Arabinose has a sweet taste and is one of the most abundant components released by complete hydrolysis of non-starch polysaccharides (NSP) of vegetable origin. Although widely present in nature, L-arabinose is rarely used in food production or food flavoring, and its physiological effects in vivo have received little attention. L-arabinose is known to selectively inhibit intestinal sucrase activity in a non-competitive manner. Sucrase is the enzyme that breaks down sucrose into glucose and fructose in the small intestine. As a result, L-arabinose suppresses plasma glucose increase due to sucrose ingestion. The presence of arabinose in urine may indicate overgrowth of intestinal yeast such as Candida albicans or other yeast/fungus species. L-arabinose is also a microbial metabolite found in, and produced by, Mycobacterium (PMID: 16232643). In a rare case of two autistic brothers that were not associated with any known metabolic disease, it was found the median value for L-arabinose in their urine samples was 179 umol/mmol creatinine, nearly six times greater than normal children (PMID: 11238761, 8931641, 1390604, 7628083). ",quantified,150.1299,150.05282343,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'urine']",SRBFZHDQGSBBOR-KLVWXMOXSA-N
42,HMDB0000661,glutaric acid,C5H8O4,"Glutaric acid is a simple five-carbon linear dicarboxylic acid. Glutaric acid is naturally produced in the body during the metabolism of some amino acids, including lysine and tryptophan. Glutaric acid may cause irritation to the skin and eyes. When present in sufficiently high levels, glutaric acid can act as an acidogen and a metabotoxin. An acidogen is an acidic compound that induces acidosis, which has multiple adverse effects on many organ systems. A metabotoxin is an endogenously produced metabolite that causes adverse health effects at chronically high levels. Chronically high levels of glutaric acid are associated with at least three inborn errors of metabolism, including glutaric aciduria type I, malonyl-CoA decarboxylase deficiency, and glutaric aciduria type III. Glutaric aciduria type I (glutaric acidemia type I, glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, GA1, or GAT1) is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to completely break down the amino acids lysine, hydroxylysine, and tryptophan due to a deficiency of mitochondrial glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase (EC 1.3.99.7, GCDH). Excessive levels of their intermediate breakdown products (e.g. glutaric acid, glutaryl-CoA, 3-hydroxyglutaric acid, glutaconic acid) can accumulate and cause damage to the brain (and also other organs). Babies with glutaric acidemia type I are often born with unusually large heads (macrocephaly). Macrocephaly is amongst the earliest signs of GA1. GA1 also causes secondary carnitine deficiency because glutaric acid, like other organic acids, is detoxified by carnitine. Abnormally high levels of organic acids in the blood (organic acidemia), urine (organic aciduria), the brain, and other tissues lead to general metabolic acidosis. Acidosis typically occurs when arterial pH falls below 7.35. In infants with acidosis, the initial symptoms include poor feeding, vomiting, loss of appetite, weak muscle tone (hypotonia), and lack of energy (lethargy). These can progress to heart, liver, and kidney abnormalities, seizures, coma, and possibly death. These are also the characteristic symptoms of untreated glutaric aciduria. Many affected children with organic acidemias experience intellectual disability or delayed development. In adults, acidosis or acidemia is characterized by headaches, confusion, feeling tired, tremors, sleepiness, and seizures. Treatment of glutaric aciduria is mainly based on the restriction of lysine intake, supplementation of carnitine, and an intensification of therapy during intercurrent illnesses. The major principle of dietary treatment is to reduce the production of glutaric acid and 3-hydroxyglutaric acid by restriction of natural protein, in general, and of lysine, in particular (PMID: 17465389, 15505398). Glutaric acid has also been found in Escherichia (PMID: 30143200).",quantified,132.1146,132.042258744,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",JFCQEDHGNNZCLN-UHFFFAOYSA-N
43,HMDB0000671,indolelactic acid,C11H11NO3,"Indolelactic acid (CAS: 1821-52-9) is a tryptophan metabolite found in human plasma, serum, and urine. Tryptophan is metabolized by two major pathways in humans, either through kynurenine or via a series of indoles, and some of its metabolites are known to be biologically active. Indolelactic acid is present in various amounts, significantly higher in umbilical fetal plasma than in maternal plasma in the protein-bound form (PMID 2361979, 1400722, 3597614, 11060358, 1400722). Indolelactic acid is also a microbial metabolite; urinary indole-3-lactate is produced by Clostridium sporogenes (PMID: 29168502).",quantified,205.2099,205.073893223,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",XGILAAMKEQUXLS-JTQLQIEISA-N
44,HMDB0000682,indoxyl sulfate,C8H7NO4S,"Indoxyl sulfate is a dietary protein metabolite and also a metabolite of the common amino acid tryptophan. It has been identified as a uremic toxin according to the European Uremic Toxin Working Group (PMID: 22626821). It is a circulating uremic toxin stimulating glomerular sclerosis and interstitial fibrosis. Indoxyl sulfate is one of the well-known substances of a group of protein-bound uremic retention solutes. Indoxyl sulfate increases the rate of progression of renal failure. In plasma, indoxyl sulfate is a protein-bound uremic solute that induces endothelial dysfunction by inhibiting endothelial proliferation and migration in vitro. Some studies suggest that indoxyl sulfate is also involved in oxidative stress. In hemodialyzed patients, serum levels of indoxyl sulfate are associated with levels of pentosidine, a marker of carbonyl and oxidative stress. In vitro, indoxyl sulfate increases reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in tubular cells and increases NAD(P)H oxidase activity in endothelial cells. Indoxyl sulfate impairs osteoblast function and induces abnormalities of bone turnover. Indoxyl sulfate strongly decreases the levels of glutathione, one of the most active antioxidant systems of the cell (PMID: 10681668 , 14681860 , 17471003 , 17403109). Indoxyl sulfate is a microbial metabolite found in Escherichia (PMID: 19946322).",quantified,213.21,213.009578407,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",BXFFHSIDQOFMLE-UHFFFAOYSA-N
45,HMDB0000700,hydroxypropionic acid,C3H6O3,"3-Hydroxypropionic acid is a carboxylic acid. It is an intermediate in the breakdown of branched-chain amino acids and propionic acid from the gut. Typically it originates from propionyl-CoA and a defect in the enzyme propionyl carboxylase. This leads to a buildup in propionyl-CoA in the mitochondria.  Such a buildup can lead to a disruption of the esterified CoA:free CoA ratio and ultimately to mitochondrial toxicity. Detoxification of these metabolic end products occurs via the transfer of the propionyl moiety to carnitine-forming propionyl-carnitine, which is then transferred across the inner mitochondrial membrane. 3-Hydroxypropionic acid is then released as the free acid. As an industrial chemical, it is used in the production of various chemicals such as acrylates in industry. When present in sufficiently high levels, 3-hydroxypropionic acid can act as an acidogen and a metabotoxin. An acidogen is an acidic compound that induces acidosis, which has multiple adverse effects on many organ systems. A metabotoxin is an endogenously produced metabolite that causes adverse health effects at chronically high levels. Chronically high levels of hydroxypropionic acid are associated with many inborn errors of metabolism including biotinidase deficiency, malonic aciduria, methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency, methylmalonic aciduria, methylmalonic aciduria due to cobalamin-related disorders, and propionic acidemia. Hydroxypropionic acid is an organic acid. Abnormally high levels of organic acids in the blood (organic acidemia), urine (organic aciduria), the brain, and other tissues lead to general metabolic acidosis. Acidosis typically occurs when arterial pH falls below 7.35. Infants with acidosis have symptoms that include poor feeding, vomiting, loss of appetite, weak muscle tone (hypotonia), and lack of energy (lethargy). These can progress to heart, liver, and kidney abnormalities, seizures, coma, and possibly death. These are also the characteristic symptoms of the IEMs mentioned above. Many affected children with organic acidemias experience intellectual disability or delayed development. In adults, acidosis or acidemia is characterized by headaches, confusion, feeling tired, tremors, sleepiness, and seizures. 3-Hydroxypropionic acid is also a microbial metabolite found in Escherichia, Klebsiella and Saccharomyces (PMID: 26360870).",quantified,90.0779,90.031694058,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'urine']",ALRHLSYJTWAHJZ-UHFFFAOYSA-N
46,HMDB0000707,4-hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid,C9H8O4,"4-Hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid (4-HPPA) is a keto acid that is involved in the tyrosine catabolism pathway. It is a product of the enzyme (R)-4-hydroxyphenyllactate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.222) and is formed during tyrosine metabolism. The conversion from tyrosine to 4-HPPA is catalyzed by tyrosine aminotransferase. Additionally, 4-HPPA can be converted to homogentisic acid which is one of the precursors to ochronotic pigment. The enzyme 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid dioxygenase (HPD) catalyzes the reaction that converts 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid to homogentisic acid. A deficiency in the catalytic activity of HPD is known to lead to tyrosinemia type III, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by elevated levels of blood tyrosine and massive excretion of tyrosine derivatives into urine. It has been shown that hawkinsinuria, an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by the excretion of 'hawkinsin,' may also be a result of HPD deficiency (PMID: 11073718). Moreover, 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid is also found to be associated in phenylketonuria, which is also an inborn error of metabolism. There are two isomers of HPPA, specifically 4HPPA and 3HPPA, of which 4HPPA is the most common. 4-HPPA has been found to be a microbial metabolite in Escherichia (ECMDB).",quantified,180.1574,180.042258744,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",KKADPXVIOXHVKN-UHFFFAOYSA-N
47,HMDB0000710,4-hydroxybutyric acid,C4H8O3,"4-Hydroxybutyric acid (also known as gamma-hydroxybutyrate or GHB) is a precursor and a metabolite of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). GHB acts as a central nervous system (CNS) neuromodulator, mediating its effects through GABA and GHB-specific receptors, or by affecting dopamine transmission (PMID: 16620539). GHB occurs naturally in all mammals, but its function remains unknown. GHB is labeled as an illegal drug in most countries, but it also is used as a legal drug (Xyrem) in patients with narcolepsy. It is used illegally (under the street names juice, liquid ecstasy, or G) as an intoxicant for increasing athletic performance and as a date rape drug. In high doses, GHB inhibits the CNS, inducing sleep and inhibiting the respiratory drive. In lower doses, its euphoriant effect predominates (PMID: 17658710). When present in sufficiently high levels, 4-hydroxybutyric acid can act as an acidogen, a neurotoxin, and a metabotoxin. An acidogen is an acidic compound that induces acidosis, which has multiple adverse effects on many organ systems. A neurotoxin is a compound that adversely affects neural cells and tissues. A metabotoxin is an endogenously produced metabolite that causes adverse health effects at chronically high levels. Chronically high levels of 4-hydroxybutyric acid are associated with two inborn errors of metabolism: glutaric aciduria II and succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency (SSADH). SSADH deficiency leads to a 30-fold increase of GHB and a 2-4 fold increase of GABA in the brains of patients with SSADH deficiency as compared to normal brain concentrations of the compounds. As an acidogen, 4-hydroxybutyric acid is an organic acid, and abnormally high levels of organic acids in the blood (organic acidemia), urine (organic aciduria), the brain, and other tissues lead to general metabolic acidosis. Acidosis typically occurs when arterial pH falls below 7.35. In infants with acidosis, the initial symptoms include poor feeding, vomiting, loss of appetite, weak muscle tone (hypotonia), and lack of energy (lethargy). These can progress to heart abnormalities, kidney abnormalities, liver damage, seizures, coma, and possibly death. Many affected children with organic acidemias experience intellectual disability or delayed development. These are also the characteristic symptoms of the untreated IEMs mentioned above. Particularly for SSADH deficiency, the most common features observed include developmental delay, hypotonia, and intellectual disability. Nearly half of patients exhibit ataxia, seizures, behaviour problems, and hyporeflexia. In adults, acidosis or acidemia is characterized by headaches, confusion, feeling tired, tremors, sleepiness, and seizures. As a neurotoxin, GHB appears to affect both GABA (a neurotransmitter) signaling and glutamate signaling (another neurotransmitter). Glutamine metabolism may also play a role in the pathophysiology of excessive levels of GHB. High levels of GHB have been shown to depress both the NMDA and AMPA/kainite receptor-mediated functions and may also alter glutamatergic excitatory synaptic transmission as well. 4-Hydroxybutyric acid is a microbial metabolite found in Aeromonas, Escherichia and Pseudomonas (PMID: 19434404).",quantified,104.1045,104.047344122,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",SJZRECIVHVDYJC-UHFFFAOYSA-N
48,HMDB0000714,hippuric acid,C9H9NO3,"Hippuric acid is an acyl glycine formed from the conjugation of benzoic acid with glycine. Acyl glycines are produced through the action of glycine N-acyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.13) which is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction: acyl-CoA + glycine < -- > CoA + N-acylglycine. Hippuric acid is a normal component of urine and is typically increased with increased consumption of phenolic compounds (tea, wine, fruit juices). These phenols are converted into benzoic acid which is then converted into hippuric acid and excreted in the urine. Hippuric acid is the most frequently used biomarker in the biological monitoring of occupational exposure to toluene. This product of solvent biotransformation may be also found in the urine of individuals who have not been exposed to the solvent. A smaller fraction of the absorbed toluene is oxidized into aromatic compounds including ortho-cresol, which is not found in the urine of nonexposed individuals in a significant amount. The concentration of hippuric acid in the urine of individuals exposed to a low toluene concentration does not differ from that of individuals not exposed to the solvent. This has led to the conclusion that hippuric acid should not be utilized in the biological monitoring of occupational exposure to low levels of toluene in the air. Protein-bound organic acids such as hippuric acid are markedly accumulated in uremic plasma and produce defective protein binding of drugs (PMID: 9120876 , 8734460). Hippuric acid has been identified as a uremic toxin according to the European Uremic Toxin Working Group (PMID: 22626821). Hippuric acid is also found to be associated with phenylketonuria, propionic acidemia, and tyrosinemia I, which are inborn errors of metabolism. Hippuric acid is an endogenous phenolic acid metabolite detected after the consumption of whole grain.",quantified,179.1727,179.058243159,solid,"['blood', 'breast milk', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",QIAFMBKCNZACKA-UHFFFAOYSA-N
49,HMDB0000734,indoleacrylic acid,C11H9NO2,"Indoleacrylic acid (CAS: 1204-06-4), also known as indoleacrylate, IA, and IAcrA, is a member of the class of compounds known as indoles. Indoles are compounds containing an indole moiety, which consists of pyrrole ring fused to benzene to form 2,3-benzopyrrole. Indoleacrylic acid is practically insoluble (in water) and a weak acidic compound (based on its pKa). Within the cell, indoleacrylic acid is primarily located in the membrane (predicted from logP). Indoleacrylic acid is best known as a plant growth hormone (a natural auxin), whereas its biological role in animals is still unknown. A two-stage production of this compound is likely: intestinal microorganisms catabolize tryptophan to indole derivatives which are then absorbed and converted into indoleacrylic acid and its glycine conjugate, indolylacryloylglycine (IAcrGly). Indolylacryloylglycine excretion in urine is especially pronounced in some myopathies, namely in boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (PMID: 10707769). It has been recently found that indoleacrylic acid promotes intestinal epithelial barrier function and mitigates inflammatory responses. Stimulating indoleacrylic acid production could promote anti-inflammatory responses and have therapeutic benefits (PMID: 28704649). Urinary Indole-3-acrylate is produced by Clostridium sporogenes (PMID: 29168502). Indoleacrylic acid is also a metabolite of Peptostreptococcus (PMID: 28704649, 29168502).",detected,187.198,187.063328534,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",PLVPPLCLBIEYEA-AATRIKPKSA-N
50,HMDB0000738,indole,C8H7N,"Indole is an aromatic heterocyclic organic compound. It has a bicyclic structure, consisting of a six-membered benzene ring fused to a five-membered nitrogen-containing pyrrole ring. The participation of the nitrogen lone electron pair in the aromatic ring means that indole is not a base, and it does not behave like a simple amine. Indole is a microbial metabolite and it can be produced by bacteria as a degradation product of the amino acid tryptophan. It occurs naturally in human feces and has an intense fecal smell. At very low concentrations, however, indole has a flowery smell and is a constituent of many flower scents (such as orange blossoms) and perfumes. As a volatile organic compound, indole has been identified as a fecal biomarker of Clostridium difficile infection (PMID: 30986230). Natural jasmine oil, used in the perfume industry, contains around 2.5% of indole. Indole also occurs in coal tar. Indole has been found to be produced in a number of bacterial genera including Alcaligenes, Aspergillus, Escherichia, and Pseudomonas (PMID: 23194589, 2310183, 9680309). Indole plays a role in bacterial biofilm formation, bacterial motility, bacterial virulence, plasmid stability, and antibiotic resistance. It also functions as an intercellular signalling molecule (PMID: 26115989). Recently, it was determined that the bacterial membrane-bound histidine sensor kinase (HK) known as CpxA acts as a bacterial indole sensor to facilitate signalling (PMID: 31164470). It has been found that decreased indole concentrations in the gut promote bacterial pathogenesis, while increased levels of indole in the gut decrease bacterial virulence gene expression (PMID: 31164470). As a result, enteric pathogens sense a gradient of indole concentrations in the gut to migrate to different niches and successfully establish an infection.",quantified,117.1479,117.057849229,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",SIKJAQJRHWYJAI-UHFFFAOYSA-N
51,HMDB0000746,hydroxyisocaproic acid,C6H12O3,"Hydroxyisocaproic acid is an end product of leucine metabolism in human tissues such as muscle and connective tissue. It belongs to 2-hydroxycarboxylic acid group of amino acid metabolites (PMID 6434570). Hydroxyisocaproic acid functions as an “anti-catabolite” and is widely used in the body building community. Chronic alpha-hydroxyisocaproic acid treatment of rats has been shown to improve muscle recovery after immobilization-induced atrophy (PMID: 23757407). Additionally, a 4-week hydroxyisocaproic acid supplementation of 1.5 g a day was shown to lead to increases in muscle mass during an intensive training period among soccer athletes (PMID: 20051111). Hydroxyisocaproic acid has also shown some potential as a topical antibiotic (PMID: 22483561). Elevated levels of 2-hydroxyisocaproic acid have been found in the urine of patients with dihydrolipoyl dehydrogenase (E3) deficiency (PMID: 6688766). Hydroxyisocaproic acid is also elevated in maple syrup urine disease, a genetic disorder, and has been shown to accelerate lipid peroxidation. It may also be an indicator of oxidative stress (PMID: 11894849). Hydroxyisocaproic acid has been found to be a metabolite of Lactobacillus and fungal species (http://jultika.oulu.fi/files/isbn9789526211046.pdf).",quantified,132.1577,132.07864425,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",LVRFTAZAXQPQHI-YFKPBYRVSA-N
52,HMDB0000755,hydroxyphenyllactic acid,C9H10O4,"Hydroxyphenyllactic acid or 4-hydroxyphenyllactate (the L-form) is a tyrosine metabolite. The level of L-hydroxyphenyllactic acid is elevated in patients with a deficiency of the enzyme p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate oxidase (EC 1.14.2.2) (PMID: 4720815). L-hydroxyphenyllactate is present in relatively higher concentrations in the cerebrospinal fluid and urine of patients with phenylketonuria (PKU) and tyrosinemia (PMID: 3126358). However, the D-form of hydroxyphenyllactate is of bacterial origin and is also found in individuals with bacterial overgrowth or unusual gut microflora (PMID: 3126358).  Microbial hydroxyphenyllactate is likely derived from phenolic or polyphenolic compounds in the diet.  Bifidobacteria and lactobacilli produce considerable amounts of phenyllactic and p-hydroxyphenyllactic acids (PMID: 23061754).  It has also been shown that hydroxyphenyllactate decreases ROS (reactive oxygen species) production in both mitochondria and neutrophils and so hydroxyphenyllactate may function as a natural anti-oxidant (PMID: 23061754). Hydroxyphenyllactic acid is a microbial metabolite found in Acinetobacter, Bacteroides, Bifidobacteria, Bifidobacterium, Clostridium, Enterococcus, Escherichia, Eubacterium, Klebsiella, Lactobacillus, Pseudomonas and Staphylococcus (PMID: 19961416).",quantified,182.1733,182.057908808,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",JVGVDSSUAVXRDY-UHFFFAOYSA-N
53,HMDB0000763,5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid,C10H9NO3,"5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid, also known as 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetate or 5-HIAA, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as indole-3-acetic acid derivatives. Indole-3-acetic acid derivatives are compounds containing an acetic acid (or a derivative) linked to the C3 carbon atom of an indole. 5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid exists in all living organisms, ranging from bacteria to humans. In humans, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid is a breakdown product of serotonin that is excreted in the urine and it also participates in a number of enzymatic reactions. 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid can be biosynthesized from 5-hydroxyindoleacetaldehyde; which is catalyzed by the mitochondrial enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase. In addition, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and S-adenosylmethionine can be converted into 5-methoxyindoleacetate and S-adenosylhomocysteine through its interaction with the enzyme acetylserotonin O-methyltransferase. 5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid is also involved in the metabolism of tryptophan. 5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid has been found to be associated with several human diseases such as brunner syndrome, friedreich's ataxia, schizophrenia, and olivopontocerebral atrophy; 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid has also been linked to the inborn metabolic disorder sepiapterin reductase deficiency. Elevated levels of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in urine (>20 uM) are indicative of appendicitis and gastroenteritis (PMID: 11462886). Serotonin and 5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid are produced in excess amounts by carcinoid tumors, and levels of these substances may be measured in the urine to test for carcinoid tumors (NCI). 5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid has also been found to be a product of human gut microbiota.",quantified,191.1834,191.058243159,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'urine']",DUUGKQCEGZLZNO-UHFFFAOYSA-N
54,HMDB0000764,hydrocinnamic acid,C9H10O2,"Hydrocinnamic acid, also known as 3-phenylpropanoic acid or dihydrocinnamic acid, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as phenylpropanoic acids. Phenylpropanoic acids are compounds with a structure containing a benzene ring conjugated to a propanoic acid (C6-C3). Phenylpropanoic acid can be prepared from cinnamic acid by hydrogenation. Hydrocinnamic acid is a sweet, balsamic, and cinnamon tasting compound. This compound is used frequently in cosmetic products such as perfumes, bath gels, detergent powders, liquid detergents, fabric softeners, and soaps as it gives off a floral scent. A characteristic reaction of phenylpropanoic acid is its cyclization to indanones. Phenylpropanoic acid is used in the food industry to preserve and maintain the original aroma quality of frozen foods. Phenylpropanoic acid is also added to food for technological purposes in a wide variety including manufacturing, processing, preparation, treatment, packaging, transportation or storage, and food additives. This compound is used as a sweetener as well to sweeten food and can be found in tabletop sweeteners.",quantified,150.1745,150.068079564,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",XMIIGOLPHOKFCH-UHFFFAOYSA-N
55,HMDB0000765,mannitol,C6H14O6,"Mannitol, or hexan-1,2,3,4,5,6-hexol (C6H8(OH)6), is an alcohol and a sugar (sugar alcohol), or a polyol, it is a stereoisomer of sorbitol and is similar to the C5 xylitol. The structure of mannitol is made of a straight chain of six carbon atoms, each of which is substituted with a hydroxyl group. Mannitol is one of the most abundant energy and carbon storage molecules in nature, it is produced by a wide range of organisms such as bacteria, fungi and plants (PMID: 19578847). In medicine, mannitol is used as a diuretic and renal diagnostic aid. Mannitol has little significant energy value as it is largely eliminated from the body before any metabolism can take place. It can be used to treat oliguria associated with kidney failure or other manifestations of inadequate renal function and has been used for determination of glomerular filtration rate. Mannitol is also commonly used as a research tool in cell biological studies, usually to control osmolarity. Mannitol has a tendency to lose a hydrogen ion in aqueous solutions, which causes the solution to become acidic. For this, it is not uncommon to add a weak base, such as sodium bicarbonate, to the solution to adjust its pH. Mannitol is a non-permeating molecule i.e., it cannot cross biological membranes. Mannitol is an osmotic diuretic agent and a weak renal vasodilator. Mannitol is found to be associated with cytochrome c oxidase deficiency and ribose-5-phosphate isomerase deficiency, which are inborn errors of metabolism. Mannitol is also a microbial metabolite found in Aspergillus, Candida, Clostridium, Gluconobacter, Lactobacillus, Lactococcus, Leuconostoc, Pseudomonas, Rhodobacteraceae, Saccharomyces, Streptococcus, Torulaspora and Zymomonas (PMID: 15240312; PMID: 29480337).",quantified,182.1718,182.07903818,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",FBPFZTCFMRRESA-KVTDHHQDSA-N
56,HMDB0000772,nonadecanoic acid,C19H38O2,"Nonadecanoic acid, also known as n-nonadecanoic acid or nonadecylic acid or C19:0, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as long-chain fatty acids. These are fatty acids with an aliphatic tail that contains between 13 and 21 carbon atoms, with nonadecanoic acid (its ester is called nonadecanoate) having 19 carbon atoms. Nonadecanoic acid is a very hydrophobic molecule, practically insoluble (in water). It is a solid with a melting point of 69.4¬∞C.  It can be found in bacteria, plants, and animals (including animal milk) (Nature 176:882; PMID: 14168161).  It is secreted by termites (Rhinotermes marginalis) as part of its defence mechanism (Comp. Biochem. Physiol. B 71:731).",detected,298.5038,298.28718046,solid,['feces'],ISYWECDDZWTKFF-UHFFFAOYSA-N
57,HMDB0000779,phenyllactic acid,C9H10O3,"Phenyllactic acid a product of phenylalanine catabolism, appearing prominently in the urine in individuals with phenylketonuria. Levels of several phenylalanine metabolites, including phenylacetate (PAA), phenyllactate (PLA), and phenylpyruvate (PPA)) are elevated in Phenylketonuria (PKU) (OMIM 261600). Phenyllactic acid is likely produced from phenylpyruvate via the action of lactate dehydrogenase. The D-form of this organic acid is typically derived from bacterial sources while the L-form is almost certainly endogenous. Levels of phenyllactate are normally very low in blood or urine. High levels of PLA in the urine or blood are often indicative of phenylketonuria (PKU) and hyperphenylalaninemia (HPA). PKU is due to lack of the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH), so that phenylalanine is converted not to tyrosine but to phenylpyruvic acid (a precursor of phenylactate). In particular, excessive phenylalanine is typically metabolized into phenylketones through, a transaminase pathway route involving glutamate. Metabolites of this transamination reaction include phenylacetate, phenylpyruvate and phenethylamine. In persons with PKU, dietary phenylalanine either accumulates in the body or some of it is converted to phenylpyruvic acid and then to phenyllactate through the action of lactate dehydrogenase. Individuals with PKU tend to excrete large quantities of phenylpyruvate, phenylacetate and phenyllactate, along with phenylalanine, in their urine. If untreated, mental retardation effects and microcephaly are evident by the first year along with other symptoms which include: unusual irritability, epileptic seizures and skin lesions. Hyperactivity, EEG abnormalities and seizures, and severe learning disabilities are major clinical problems later in life. A ""musty or mousy"" odor of skin, hair, sweat and urine (due to phenylacetate accumulation); and a tendency to hypopigmentation and eczema are also observed. The neural-development effects of PKU are primarily due to the disruption of neurotransmitter synthesis. In particular, phenylalanine is a large, neutral amino acid which moves across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) via the large neutral amino acid transporter (LNAAT). Excessive phenylalanine in the blood saturates the transporter. Thus, excessive levels of phenylalanine significantly decrease the levels of other LNAAs in the brain. But since these amino acids are required for protein and neurotransmitter synthesis, phenylalanine accumulation disrupts brain development, leading to mental retardation. (PMID: 10790306; OMIM: 261600). Phenyllactic acid can be found in Acinetobacter, Bacteroides, Bifidobacterium, Clostridium, Enterococcus, Escherichia, Eubacterium, Klebsiella, Lactobacillus, Pseudomonas and Staphylococcus (PMID: 19961416).",quantified,166.1739,166.062994186,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",VOXXWSYKYCBWHO-UHFFFAOYSA-N
58,HMDB0000820,propyl alcohol,C3H8O,"Propyl alcohol, also known as 1-propanol, n-propanol, or simply propanol, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as primary alcohols. Primary alcohols are compounds in which a hydroxy group is bonded to a primary carbon, with the general structure RCOH (R=alkyl, aryl). Propyl alcohol is a colourless, volatile liquid that is fully miscible with water. It has a sweet odour and an alcoholic, fermented, fusel taste. Propyl alcohol exists in all living species, ranging from bacteria to plants to humans. Propanol can be produced through fermentation of sugars by bacteria and yeast and small amounts are produced by gut microflora. Propanol has been identified as a fecal biomarker of Clostridium difficile infection (PMID: 30986230). When ingested, 1-propanol is metabolized by alcohol dehydrogenase to propionic acid leading to metabolic acidosis and an elevated anion gap (PMID: 18375643). It can be found in small amounts in alcoholic beverages such as wine. Industrially, the major use of 1-propanol is as a solvent as well as an intermediate in forming other industrially important compounds.  It is used as a carrier and extraction solvent for natural products, such as flavourings, vegetable oils, resins, waxes, and gums, and as a solvent for synthetic polymers, such as polyvinyl butyral, cellulose esters, lacquers, and PVC adhesives.  Other solvent applications include the use of 1-propanol in the polymerization and spinning of acrylonitrile, in flexographic printing inks, and in the dyeing of wool.  1-Propanol is used for both its solvent and antiseptic properties in drugs and cosmetics, such as lotions, soaps, and nail polishes (IPCS INCHEM, EHC 102). Both 1-propanol and 2-propanol are often used in hand disinfectants as they have excellent bactericidal activity.  1-Propanol is used less in industry than 2-propanol as it is more expensive and it is a toxicant that has a similar taste to ethanol, so 2-propanol is used as its unpleasant smell discourages abuse.",quantified,60.095,60.057514878,liquid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva']",BDERNNFJNOPAEC-UHFFFAOYSA-N
59,HMDB0000849,rhamnose,C6H12O5,"Rhamnose (Rham) is a naturally occurring deoxy sugar. It can be classified as either a methyl-pentose or a 6-deoxy-hexose. Rhamnose occurs in nature in its L-form as L-rhamnose (6-deoxy-L-mannose). This is unusual, since most of the naturally occurring sugars are in D-form. Rhamnose is commonly bound to other sugars in nature. It is a common glycone component of glycosides from many plants. Rhamnose is also a component of the outer cell membrane of certain bacteria. L-rhamnose is metabolized to L-Lactaldehyde, which is a branching point in the metabolic pathway of L-fucose and L-rhamnose utilization. It exists in two anomeric forms, alpha-L-rhamnose and beta-L-rhamnose. Rhamnose has been found in Klebsiella, Pseudomonas (https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF00369505) (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/ejlt.200300816).",detected,164.1565,164.068473494,solid,['feces'],SHZGCJCMOBCMKK-JFNONXLTSA-N
60,HMDB0000863,isopropyl alcohol,C3H8O,"Isopropyl alcohol, also known as isopropanol or 1-methylethanol, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as secondary alcohols. Secondary alcohols are compounds containing a secondary alcohol functional group, with the general structure HOC(R)(R') (R,R'=alkyl, aryl). It is used in the manufacture of acetone and its derivatives and as a solvent. Isopropyl alcohol exists in all living species, ranging from bacteria to humans. Isopropyl alcohol is an alcohol, bitter, and musty tasting compound. Isopropyl alcohol has also been detected, but not quantified in several different foods, such as papaya, roselles, apples, sweet cherries, and allium (onion). Isopropyl alcohol is an isomer of 1-propanol and is considered as a potentially toxic compound. Topically, it is used as an antiseptic. It is a colorless liquid having disinfectant properties.",quantified,60.095,60.057514878,liquid,"['blood', 'breath', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",KFZMGEQAYNKOFK-UHFFFAOYSA-N
61,HMDB0000870,histamine,C5H9N3,"Histamine is an amine derived by enzymatic decarboxylation of histidine. It is a powerful stimulant of gastric secretion, a constrictor of bronchial smooth muscle, a vasodilator, and also a centrally acting neurotransmitter. Histamine can be found in Photobacterium phosphoreum and Lactobacillus (PMID:17066936). Histamine belongs to the class of organic compounds known as 2-arylethylamines. These are primary amines that have the general formula RCCNH2, where R is an organic group. High amounts of histamine have been found in spinach, oats and ryes. Another foods such as green beans, broccoli, and beetroots also contain histamine but in lower concentrations. Histamine has also been detected but not quantified in several different foods, such as groundcherries, carobs, bok choy, biscuits, and longans. ",quantified,111.1451,111.079647303,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",NTYJJOPFIAHURM-UHFFFAOYSA-N
62,HMDB0000895,acetylcholine,C7H16NO2,"Acetylcholine (ACh) is a neurotransmitter. Acetylcholine in vertebrates is the major transmitter at neuromuscular junctions, autonomic ganglia, parasympathetic effector junctions, a subset of sympathetic effector junctions, and at many sites in the central nervous system. Its physiological and pharmacological effects, metabolism, release, and receptors have been well documented in several species. ACh has been considered an important excitatory neurotransmitter in the carotid body (CB). Various nicotinic and muscarinic ACh receptors are present in both afferent nerve endings and glomus cells. Therefore, ACh can depolarize or hyperpolarize the cell membrane depending on the available receptor type in the vicinity. Binding of ACh to its receptor can create a wide variety of cellular responses including opening cation channels (nicotinic ACh receptor activation), releasing Ca2+ from intracellular storage sites (via muscarinic ACh receptors), and modulating activities of K+ and Ca2+ channels. Interactions between ACh and other neurotransmitters (dopamine, adenosine, nitric oxide) have been known, and they may induce complicated responses. Cholinergic biology in the CB differs among species and even within the same species due to different genetic composition. Development and environment influence cholinergic biology. Pharmacological data clearly indicate that both muscarinic and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors have a role in the encoding of new memories. Localized lesions and antagonist infusions demonstrate the anatomical locus of these cholinergic effects, and computational modeling links the function of cholinergic modulation to specific cellular effects within these regions. Acetylcholine has been shown to increase the strength of afferent input relative to feedback, to contribute to theta rhythm oscillations, activate intrinsic mechanisms for persistent spiking, and increase the modification of synapses. These effects might enhance different types of encoding in different cortical structures. In particular, the effects in entorhinal and perirhinal cortex and hippocampus might be important for encoding new episodic memories. The role of ACh in attention has been repeatedly demonstrated in several tasks. Acetylcholine is linked to response accuracy in voluntary and reflexive attention and also to response speed in reflexive attention. It is well known that those with Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorders tend to be inaccurate and slow to respond. (PMID:17284361, 17011181, 15556286). Acetylcholine has been found to be a microbial product, urinary acetylcholine is produced by Lactobacillus (PMID:24621061).",quantified,146.2074,146.118103761,solid,"['cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'saliva']",OIPILFWXSMYKGL-UHFFFAOYSA-N
63,HMDB0000896,taurodeoxycholic acid,C26H45NO6S,"Taurodeoxycholic acid is a bile salt formed in the liver by conjugation of deoxycholate with taurine, usually as the sodium salt. Bile acids are steroid acids found predominantly in the bile of mammals. The distinction between different bile acids is minute, depending only on the presence or absence of hydroxyl groups on positions 3, 7, and 12. Bile acids are physiological detergents that facilitate excretion, absorption, and transport of fats and sterols in the intestine and liver. Bile acids are also steroidal amphipathic molecules derived from the catabolism of cholesterol. They modulate bile flow and lipid secretion, are essential for the absorption of dietary fats and vitamins, and have been implicated in the regulation of all the key enzymes involved in cholesterol homeostasis. Bile acids recirculate through the liver, bile ducts, small intestine and portal vein to form an enterohepatic circuit. They exist as anions at physiological pH and, consequently, require a carrier for transport across the membranes of the enterohepatic tissues. The unique detergent properties of bile acids are essential for the digestion and intestinal absorption of hydrophobic nutrients. Bile acids have potent toxic properties (e.g. membrane disruption) and there are a plethora of mechanisms to limit their accumulation in blood and tissues (PMID:11316487, 16037564, 12576301, 11907135). Taurodeoxycholic acid can be found in Escherichia (PMID:30736766).",quantified,499.704,499.296758867,solid,"['bile', 'blood', 'feces', 'urine']",AWDRATDZQPNJFN-VAYUFCLWSA-N
64,HMDB0000906,trimethylamine,C3H9N,"Trimethylamine, also known as NMe3, N(CH3)3, and TMA, is a colorless, hygroscopic, and flammable simple amine with a typical fishy odor in low concentrations and an ammonia like odor in higher concentrations. Trimethylamine has a boiling point of 2.9 degree centigrade and is a gas at room temperature. Trimethylamine usually comes in pressurized gas cylinders or as a 40% solution in water. Trimethylamine is a nitrogenous base and its positively charged cation is called trimethylammonium cation. A common salt of trimethylamine is trimethylammonium chloride, a hygroscopic colorless solid. Trimethylamine is a product of decomposition of plants and animals. It is the substance mainly responsible for the fishy odor often associated with fouling fish, bacterial vagina infections, and bad breath. It is also associated with taking large doses of choline. Trimethylaminuria is a genetic disorder in which the body is unable to metabolize trimethylamine from food sources. Patients develop a characteristic fish odour of their sweat, urine, and breath after the consumption of choline-rich foods. Trimethylaminuria is an autosomal recessive disorder involving a trimethylamine oxidase deficiency. Trimethylaminuria has also been observed in a certain breed of Rhode Island Red chicken that produces eggs with a fishy smell. Trimethylamine in the urine is a biomarker for the consumption of legumes. It has also been found to be a product of various types of bacteria, such as Achromobacter, Acinetobacter, Actinobacteria, Aeromonas, Alcaligenes, Alteromonas, Anaerococcus, Bacillus, Bacteroides, Bacteroidetes, Burkholderia, Campylobacter, Citrobacter, Clostridium, Desulfitobacterium, Desulfovibrio, Desulfuromonas, Edwardsiella, Enterobacter, Enterococcus, Escherichia, Eubacterium, Firmicutes, Flavobacterium, Gammaproteobacteria, Haloanaerobacter, Klebsiella, Micrococcus, Mobiluncus, Olsenella, Photobacterium, Proteobacteria, Proteus, Providencia, Pseudomonas, Rhodopseudomonas, Ruminococcus, Salmonella, Sarcina, Serratia, Shewanella, Shigella, Sinorhizobium, Sporomusa, Staphylococcus, Stigmatella, Streptococcus, Vibrio and Yokenella (PMID:26687352; PMID:25108210; PMID:24909875; PMID:28506279; PMID:27190056). Trimethylamine is a marker for urinary tract infection brought on by E. coli. (PMID:25108210; PMID:24909875). It has also been identified as a uremic toxin according to the European Uremic Toxin Working Group (PMID:22626821).",quantified,59.1103,59.073499293,liquid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",GETQZCLCWQTVFV-UHFFFAOYSA-N
65,HMDB0000925,trimethylamine n-oxide,C3H9NO,"Trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) is an oxidation product of trimethylamine and a common metabolite in animals and humans. In particular, trimethylamine-N-oxide is biosynthesized endogenously from trimethylamine, which is derived from choline, which can be derived from dietary lecithin (phosphatidylcholines) or dietary carnitine. TMAO decomposes to trimethylamine (TMA), which is the main odorant that is characteristic of degrading seafood. TMAO is an osmolyte that the body will use to counteract the effects of increased concentrations of urea (due to kidney failure) and high levels can be used as a biomarker for kidney problems. It has been identified as a uremic toxin according to the European Uremic Toxin Working Group (PMID:22626821). Fish odor syndrome or trimethylaminuria is a defect in the production of the enzyme flavin containing monooxygenase 3 (FMO3) causing incomplete breakdown of trimethylamine from choline-containing food into trimethylamine oxide. Trimethylamine then builds up and is released in the person's sweat, urine, and breath, giving off a strong fishy odor. The concentration of TMAO in the blood increases after consuming foods containing carnitine or lecithin (phosphatidylcholines), if the bacteria that convert those substances to TMAO are present in the gut (PMID:23614584). High concentrations of carnitine are found in red meat, some energy drinks, and certain dietary supplements; lecithin is found in eggs and is commonly used as an ingredient in processed food. High levels of TMAO are found in many seafoods. Some types of normal gut bacteria (e.g. species of Acinetobacter) in the human gut convert dietary carnitine and dietary lecithin to TMAO (PMID:21475195). TMAO alters cholesterol metabolism in the intestines, in the liver and in arterial wall. When TMAO is present, cholesterol metabolism is altered and there is an increased deposition of cholesterol within, and decreased removal of cholesterol from, peripheral cells such as those in the artery wall (PMID:23563705). Urinary TMAO is a biomarker for the consumption of fish, especially cold-water fish. Trimethylamine N-oxide is found to be associated with maple syrup urine disease and propionic acidemia, which are inborn errors of metabolism. TMAO can also be found in Bacteroidetes, Ruminococcus (PMID:26687352).",quantified,75.1097,75.068413915,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",UYPYRKYUKCHHIB-UHFFFAOYSA-N
66,HMDB0000930,trans-cinnamic acid,C9H8O2,"trans-Cinnamic acid, also known as (e)-cinnamic acid or phenylacrylic acid, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as cinnamic acids. These are organic aromatic compounds containing a benzene and a carboxylic acid group forming 3-phenylprop-2-enoic acid. trans-Cinnamic acid exists in all living species, ranging from bacteria to humans. trans-Cinnamic acid is a sweet, balsam, and cinnamon tasting compound. Outside of the human body, trans-Cinnamic acid is found, on average, in the highest concentration within a few different foods, such as chinese cinnamons, olives, and lingonberries and in a lower concentration in redcurrants, red raspberries, and corianders. trans-Cinnamic acid has also been detected, but not quantified in several different foods, such as common oregano, pepper (spice), fennels, pomegranates, and european cranberries. This could make trans-cinnamic acid a potential biomarker for the consumption of these foods. Cinnamic acid has been shown to be a microbial metabolite; it can be found in Alcaligenes, Brevibacterium, Cellulomonas, and Pseudomonas (PMID:16349793). trans-Cinnamic acid is a potentially toxic compound.",quantified,148.1586,148.0524295,solid,"['blood', 'saliva', 'urine']",WBYWAXJHAXSJNI-VOTSOKGWSA-N
67,HMDB0000954,ferulic acid,C10H10O4,"trans-Ferulic acid is a highly abundant phenolic phytochemical which is present in plant cell walls. Ferulic acid is a phenolic acid that can be absorbed by the small intestine and excreted through the urine. It is one of the most abundant phenolic acids in plants, varying from 5 g/kg in wheat bran to 9 g/kg in sugar-beet pulp and 50 g/kg in corn kernel. It occurs primarily in seeds and leaves both in its free form (albeit rarely) and covalently linked to lignin and other biopolymers. It is usually found as ester cross-links with polysaccharides in the cell wall, such as arabinoxylans in grasses, pectin in spinach and sugar beet, and xyloglucans in bamboo. It also can cross-link with proteins. Due to its phenolic nucleus and an extended side chain conjugation (carbohydrates and proteins), it readily forms a resonance-stabilized phenoxy radical which accounts for its potent antioxidant potential. Food supplementation with curcumin and ferulic acid is considered a nutritional approach to reducing oxidative damage and amyloid pathology in Alzheimer disease (PMID:17127365, 1398220, 15453708, 9878519). Ferulic acid can be found in Pseudomonas and Saccharomyces (PMID:8395165).",quantified,194.184,194.057908808,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",KSEBMYQBYZTDHS-HWKANZROSA-N
68,HMDB0000956,tartaric acid,C4H6O6,"Tartaric acid is a white crystalline organic acid. It occurs naturally in many plants, particularly grapes and tamarinds, and is one of the main acids found in wine. It is added to other foods to give a sour taste, and is used as an antioxidant. Salts of tartaric acid are known as tartrates. It is a dihydroxy derivative of dicarboxylic acid. Tartaric acid is a muscle toxin, which works by inhibiting the production of malic acid, and in high doses causes paralysis and death. The minimum recorded fatal dose for a human is about 12 grams. In spite of that, it is included in many foods, especially sour-tasting sweets. As a food additive, tartaric acid is used as an antioxidant with E number E334, tartrates are other additives serving as antioxidants or emulsifiers. Naturally-occurring tartaric acid is chiral, meaning that it has molecules that are non-superimposable on their mirror-images. It is a useful raw material in organic chemistry for the synthesis of other chiral molecules. The naturally occurring form of the acid is L-(+)-tartaric acid or dextrotartaric acid. The mirror-image (enantiomeric) form, levotartaric acid or D-(-)-tartaric acid, and the achiral form, mesotartaric acid, can be made artificially. Tartarate is believed to play a role in inhibiting kidney stone formation. Most tartarate that is consumed by humans is metabolized by bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract -- primarily in the large instestine. Only about 15-20% of consumed tartaric acid is secreted in the urine unchanged. Tartaric acid is a biomarker for the consumption of wine and grapes (PMID:24507823). Tartaric acid is also a fungal metabolite, elevated levels in the urine (especially in children) may be due to the presence of yeast (in the gut or bladder). It can be produced by Agrobacterium, Nocardia, Rhizobium, Saccharomyces as well (PMID:7628083) (https://link.springer.com/article/10.1023/A:1005592104426). High levels of tartaric acid have been found in autistic children. In adults, tartaric acid may be due to the consumption of wine (https://www.greatplainslaboratory.com/articles-1/2015/11/13/candida-and-overgrowth-the-problem-bacteria-by-products) (PMID:15738524; PMID:24507823; PMID:7628083).",quantified,150.0868,150.016437924,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",FEWJPZIEWOKRBE-JCYAYHJZSA-N
69,HMDB0000957,pyrocatechol,C6H6O2,"Pyrocatechol, often known as catechol or benzene-1,2-diol, is a benzenediol, with formula C6H4(OH)2. It was first prepared in 1839 by H. Reinsch by distilling catechin (the juice of Mimosa catechu). This colourless compound occurs naturally, but about 20000 tons are manufactured each year, mainly as precursors to pesticides, flavors, and fragrances. Its sulfonic acid is often present in the urine of many mammals. Small amounts of catechol occur naturally in fruits and vegetables, along with the enzyme polyphenol oxidase. Upon mixing the enzyme with the substrate and exposure to oxygen (as when a potato or apple is cut), the colorless catechol oxidizes to reddish-brown benzoquinone derivatives. The enzyme is inactivated by adding an acid, such as lemon juice, or by refrigeration. Excluding oxygen also prevents the browning reaction. Catechol melts at 28 °C and boils at 250 °C. It is employed in medicine as an expectorant. The dimethyl ether or veratrol is also used in medicine. Many other pyrocatechin derivatives have been suggested for therapeutic application. Pyrocatechol has also been found to be a microbial metabolite in Escherichia, Mycobacterium and Pseudomonas (PMID:19300498; PMID:25281236).",quantified,110.1106,110.036779436,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",YCIMNLLNPGFGHC-UHFFFAOYSA-N
70,HMDB0000975,trehalose,C12H22O11,"Trehalose, also known as mycose, is a 1-alpha (disaccharide) sugar found extensively but not abundantly in nature. It is thought to be implicated in anhydrobiosis - the ability of plants and animals to withstand prolonged periods of desiccation. The sugar is thought to form a gel phase as cells dehydrate, which prevents disruption of internal cell organelles by effectively splinting them in position. Rehydration then allows normal cellular activity to be resumed without the major, generally lethal damage that would normally follow a dehydration/reyhdration cycle. Trehalose is a non-reducing sugar formed from two glucose units joined by a 1-1 alpha bond giving it the name of alpha-D-glucopyranoglucopyranosyl-1,1-alpha-D-glucopyranoside. The bonding makes trehalose very resistant to acid hydrolysis, and therefore stable in solution at high temperatures even under acidic conditions. The bonding also keeps non-reducing sugars in closed-ring form, such that the aldehyde or ketone end-groups do not bind to the lysine or arginine residues of proteins (a process called glycation). The enzyme trehalase, present but not abundant in most people, breaks it into two glucose molecules, which can then be readily absorbed in the gut. Trehalose is an important components of insects circulating fluid. It acts as a storage form of insect circulating fluid and it is important in respiration. Trehalose has also been found to be a metabolite of Burkholderia, Escherichia and Propionibacterium (PMID:12105274; PMID:25479689) (krishikosh.egranth.ac.in/bitstream/1/84382/1/88571%20P-1257.pdf).",quantified,342.2965,342.116211546,solid,"['feces', 'urine']",HDTRYLNUVZCQOY-LIZSDCNHSA-N
71,HMDB0000990,acetaldehyde,C2H4O,"Acetaldehyde, also known as ethanal, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as short-chain aldehydes. These are an aldehyde with a chain length containing between 2 and 5 carbon atoms. Acetaldehyde exists in all living species, ranging from bacteria to humans. Within humans, acetaldehyde participates in a number of enzymatic reactions. In particular, acetaldehyde can be biosynthesized from ethanol which is mediated by the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase 1B. Acetaldehyde can also be converted to acetic acid by the enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase (mitochondrial) and aldehyde dehydrogenase X (mitochondrial). The main method of production is the oxidation of ethylene by the Wacker process, which involves oxidation of ethylene using a homogeneous palladium/copper system: 2 CH2CH2 + O2 → 2 CH3CHO. In the 1970s, the world capacity of the Wacker-Hoechst direct oxidation process exceeded 2 million tonnes annually. In humans, acetaldehyde is involved in disulfiram action pathway. Acetaldehyde is an aldehydic, ethereal, and fruity tasting compound. Outside of the human body, acetaldehyde is found, on average, in the highest concentration in a few different foods, such as sweet oranges, pineapples, and mandarin orange (clementine, tangerine) and in a lower concentration in . acetaldehyde has also been detected, but not quantified in several different foods, such as malabar plums, malus (crab apple), rose hips, natal plums, and medlars. This could make acetaldehyde a potential biomarker for the consumption of these foods. In condensation reactions, acetaldehyde is prochiral. Acetaldehyde is formally rated as a possible carcinogen (by IARC 2B) and is also a potentially toxic compound. Acetaldehyde has been found to be associated with several diseases such as alcoholism, ulcerative colitis, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, and crohn's disease; also acetaldehyde has been linked to the inborn metabolic disorders including aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency (III) sulfate is used to reoxidize the mercury back to the mercury. Acetaldehyde was first observed by the Swedish pharmacist/chemist Carl Wilhelm Scheele (1774); it was then investigated by the French chemists Antoine François, comte de Fourcroy and Louis Nicolas Vauquelin (1800), and the German chemists Johann Wolfgang Döbereiner (1821, 1822, 1832) and Justus von Liebig (1835). At room temperature, acetaldehyde (CH3CHO) is more stable than vinyl alcohol (CH2CHOH) by 42.7 kJ/mol: Overall the keto-enol tautomerization occurs slowly but is catalyzed by acids. The level at which an average consumer could detect acetaldehyde is still considerably lower than any toxicity. Pathways of exposure include air, water, land, or groundwater, as well as drink and smoke. Acetaldehyde is also created by thermal degradation or ultraviolet photo-degradation of some thermoplastic polymers during or after manufacture. The water industry generally recognizes 20–40 ppb as the taste/odor threshold for acetaldehyde. The level at which an average consumer could detect acetaldehyde is still considerably lower than any toxicity.",quantified,44.0526,44.02621475,liquid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'sweat', 'urine']",IKHGUXGNUITLKF-UHFFFAOYSA-N
72,HMDB0001015,n-formyl-l-methionine,C6H11NO3S,"N-formyl-L-methionine is a L-methionine derivative in which one of the hydrogens attached to the nitrogen is replaced by a formyl group. It has a role as a metabolite. It is a proteinogenic amino acid, a N-formyl amino acid and a L-methionine derivative. It is a conjugate acid of a N-formyl-L-methioninate. N-Formyl-L-methionine belongs to the class of organic compounds known as methionine and derivatives. Methionine and derivatives are compounds containing methionine or a derivative thereof resulting from reaction of methionine at the amino group or the carboxy group, or from the replacement of any hydrogen of glycine by a heteroatom. N-Formyl-L-methionine is effective in the initiation of protein synthesis. The initiating methionine residue enters the ribosome as N-formylmethionyl-tRNA. This process occurs in Escherichia coli and other bacteria as well as in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells.",quantified,177.221,177.045963913,solid,"['feces', 'urine']",PYUSHNKNPOHWEZ-YFKPBYRVSA-N
73,HMDB0001087,5-methylthioribose,C6H12O4S,"5-Methylthioribose (CAS: 23656-67-9) belongs to the class of organic compounds known as pentoses. These are monosaccharides in which the carbohydrate moiety contains five carbon atoms. 5-Methylthioribose is an extremely weak basic (essentially neutral) compound (based on its pKa). 5-Methylthioribose exists in all living organisms, ranging from bacteria to humans. In humans, 5-methylthioribose is involved in the metabolic disorder called hypermethioninemia. Outside of the human body, 5-methylthioribose has been detected, but not quantified in, several different foods, such as alaska wild rhubarbs, common verbena, greenthread tea, pasta, and Irish moss. This could make 5-methylthioribose a potential biomarker for the consumption of these foods. 5-Methylthioribose is a metabolite of 5-methylthioribose-1-phosphate. It is a substrate of methylthioribose kinase (EC 2.7.1.100) in the methionine metabolism pathway (KEGG). It can be found in Escherichia (PMID: 4203512).",expected,180.222,180.045629562,solid,,OLVVOVIFTBSBBH-KVTDHHQDSA-N
74,HMDB0001124,trehalose 6-phosphate,C12H23O14P,"Trehalose 6-phosphate is a substrate for Hexokinase (type I) and Tryptase beta-1. Trehalose 6-phosphate has been found to be a microbial metabolite in Escherichia, Mycobacterium and Saccharomyces (UniProt).",expected,422.2764,422.082541956,solid,,LABSPYBHMPDTEL-LIZSDCNHSA-N
75,HMDB0001129,n-acetylmannosamine,C8H15NO6,"N-Acetylmannosamine, also known as beta-ManNAcc or β-ManNAc, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as acylaminosugars. These are organic compounds containing a sugar linked to a chain through N-acyl group. Within humans, N-acetylmannosamine participates in a number of enzymatic reactions. In particular, N-acetylmannosamine can be biosynthesized from N-acetyl-D-glucosamine, which is catalyzed by the enzyme N-acylglucosamine 2-epimerase. In addition, N-acetylmannosamine and uridine 5'-diphosphate can be biosynthesized from uridine diphosphate-N-acetylglucosamine; which is mediated by the enzyme bifunctional UDP-N-acetyl glucosamine 2-epimerase / N-acetylmannosamine kinase. In humans, N-acetylmannosamine is involved in the metabolic disorder called the salla disease/infantile sialic acid storage disease pathway. In the rate-limiting step of the pathway, UDP-GlcNAc is converted into ManNAc by UDP-GlcNAc 2-epimerase, encoded by the epimerase domain of GNE. Improved sialylation after the addition of ManNAc and other supporting ingredients to the culture medium not only increases manufacturing yield, but also improves therapeutic efficacy by increasing solubility, increasing half-life and reducing immunogenicity by reducing the formation of antibodies to the therapeutic glycoprotein When the GNE epimerase kinase does not function correctly in the human body thereby reducing the available ManNAc, it is reasonable to assume that treatment with ManNAc could assist with improving health benefits. There is no available therapy to treat GNE myopathy. ManNAc is the first committed biological precursor of N-acetylneuraminic acid (Neu5Ac, sialic acid).",detected,221.2078,221.089937217,solid,"['feces', 'urine']",OVRNDRQMDRJTHS-OZRXBMAMSA-N
76,HMDB0001180,n2-succinyl-l-glutamic acid 5-semialdehyde,C9H13NO6,N2-Succinyl-L-glutamic acid 5-semialdehyde is a substrate for Succinate semialdehyde dehydrogenase (mitochondrial) and Ornithine aminotransferase (mitochondrial). It can be found in Escherichia (UniProt).,expected,231.2026,231.074287153,solid,,XTOKIEIBKARFSZ-LURJTMIESA-N
77,HMDB0001199,n2-succinyl-l-ornithine,C9H16N2O5,N2-Succinyl-L-ornithine is a substrate for Ornithine aminotransferase (mitochondrial). It can be found in Escherichia (UniProt).,expected,232.2337,232.105921632,solid,,VWXQFHJBQHTHMK-LURJTMIESA-N
78,HMDB0001213,1-deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate,C5H11O7P,"1-Deoxy-D-xylulose 5-phosphate is a substrate for 2,4-dienoyl-CoA reductase (mitochondrial). It has been found to be a metabolite of Escherichia and Streptomyces (PMID: 10648511; PMID: 9371765).",expected,214.1104,214.024239218,solid,,AJPADPZSRRUGHI-RFZPGFLSSA-N
79,HMDB0001266,l-sorbose,C6H12O6,"L-Sorbose, also known as L-sorbinose or L-xylo-hexulose, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as monosaccharides. Monosaccharides are compounds containing one carbohydrate unit not glycosidically linked to another such unit, and no set of two or more glycosidically linked carbohydrate units. Monosaccharides have the general formula CnH2nOn. L-Sorbose exists in all living species, ranging from bacteria to humans. The commercial production of vitamin C (ascorbic acid) often begins with sorbose. L-Sorbose (CAS: 87-79-6) is a ketose belonging to the group of sugars known as monosaccharides. Sorbose has been found to be a metabolite of Ketogulonicigenium (PMID:15785002).",quantified,180.1559,180.063388116,solid,"['feces', 'sweat', 'urine']",LKDRXBCSQODPBY-BGPJRJDNSA-N
80,HMDB0001310,d-alanine,C3H7NO2,"Alanine is a nonessential amino acid made in the body from the conversion of the carbohydrate pyruvate or the breakdown of DNA and the dipeptides carnosine and anserine. It is highly concentrated in muscle and is one of the most important amino acids released by muscle, functioning as a major energy source. Plasma alanine is often decreased when the BCAA (Branched Chain Amino Acids) are deficient. This finding may relate to muscle metabolism. Alanine is highly concentrated in meat products and other high-protein foods like wheat germ and cottage cheese. Alanine is an important participant as well as regulator in glucose metabolism. Alanine levels parallel blood sugar levels in both diabetes and hypoglycemia, and alanine reduces both severe hypoglycemia and the ketosis of diabetes. It is an important amino acid for lymphocyte reproduction and immunity. Alanine therapy has helped dissolve kidney stones in experimental animals. Normal alanine metabolism, like that of other amino acids, is highly dependent upon enzymes that contain vitamin B6. Alanine, like GABA, taurine and glycine, is an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain. Alanine can be found in some Gram-positive bacteria (PMID:24752840).",quantified,89.0932,89.047678473,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'urine']",QNAYBMKLOCPYGJ-UWTATZPHSA-N
81,HMDB0001311,d-lactic acid,C3H6O3,"Lactic acid is an organic acid. It is a chiral molecule, consisting of two optical isomers, L-lactic acid and D-lactic acid, with the L-isomer being the most common in living organisms. Lactic acid plays a role in several biochemical processes and is produced in the muscles during intense activity. D-Lactic acid is the end product of the enzyme glyoxalase II (or hydroxyacyl-glutathione hydrolase) (EC 3.1.2.6), which converts the intermediate substrate S-lactoyl-glutathione to reduced glutathione and D-lactate (OMIM: 138790). Lactic acid is a microbial metabolite found in Aerococcus, Bacillus, Carnobacterium, Corynebacterium, Enterococcus, Escherichia, Lactobacillus, Lactococcus, Leuconostoc, Oenococcus, Pediococcus, Rhizopus, Saccharomyces, Streptococcus, Tetragenococcus, Vagococcus and Weissella (PMID:26287368; PMID:26360870).",quantified,90.0779,90.031694058,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'urine']",JVTAAEKCZFNVCJ-UWTATZPHSA-N
82,HMDB0001336,"3,4-dihydroxybenzeneacetic acid",C8H8O4,"3,4-Dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) is a phenolic acid. DOPAC is a neuronal metabolite of dopamine (DA). DA undergoes monoamine oxidase-catalyzed oxidative deamination to 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde (DOPAL), which is metabolized primarily into DOPAC via aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH2). The biotransformation of DOPAL is critical as previous studies have demonstrated this DA-derived aldehyde to be a reactive electrophile and toxic to dopaminergic cells. Known inhibitors of mitochondrial ALDH2, such as 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4HNE) inhibit ALDH2-mediated oxidation of the endogenous neurotoxin DOPAL. 4HNE is one of the resulting products of oxidative stress, thus linking oxidative stress to the uncontrolled production of an endogenous neurotoxin relevant to Parkinson's disease. In early-onset Parkinson disease, there is markedly reduced activities of both monoamine oxidase (MAO) A and B. The amount of DOPAC, which is produced during dopamine oxidation by MAO, is greatly reduced as a result of increased parkin overexpression. Administration of methamphetamine to animals causes loss of DA terminals in the brain and significant decreases in dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in the striatum. Renal dopamine produced in the residual tubular units may be enhanced during a sodium challenge, thus behaving appropriately as a compensatory natriuretic hormone; however, the renal dopaminergic system in patients afflicted with renal parenchymal disorders should address parameters other than free urinary dopamine, namely the urinary excretion of L-DOPA and metabolites. DOPAC is one of the major phenolic acids formed during human microbial fermentation of tea, citrus, and soy flavonoid supplements. DOPAC exhibits a considerable antiproliferative effect in LNCaP prostate cancer and HCT116 colon cancer cells. The antiproliferative activity of DOPAC may be due to its catechol structure. A similar association of the catechol moiety in the B-ring with antiproliferative activity was demonstrated for flavanones (PMID:16956664, 16455660, 8561959, 11369822, 10443478, 16365058). DOPAC can be found in Gram-positive bacteria (PMID:24752840).",quantified,168.1467,168.042258744,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'urine']",CFFZDZCDUFSOFZ-UHFFFAOYSA-N
83,HMDB0001362,hydrogen,H2,"Hydrogen is a colorless, odorless, nonmetallic, tasteless, highly flammable diatomic gas with the molecular formula H2. With an atomic weight of 1.00794, hydrogen is the lightest element. Besides the common H1 isotope, hydrogen exists as the stable isotope Deuterium and the unstable, radioactive isotope Tritium. Hydrogen is the most abundant of the chemical elements, constituting roughly 75% of the universe's elemental mass. Hydrogen can form compounds with most elements and is present in water and most organic compounds. It plays a particularly important role in acid-base chemistry, in which many reactions involve the exchange of protons between soluble molecules. Oxidation of hydrogen, in the sense of removing its electron, formally gives H+, containing no electrons and a nucleus which is usually composed of one proton. That is why H+ is often called a proton. This species is central to discussion of acids. Under the Bronsted-Lowry theory, acids are proton donors, while bases are proton acceptors. A bare proton H+ cannot exist in solution because of its strong tendency to attach itself to atoms or molecules with electrons. However, the term 'proton' is used loosely to refer to positively charged or cationic hydrogen, denoted H+. H2 is a product of some types of anaerobic metabolism and is produced by several microorganisms, usually via reactions catalyzed by iron- or nickel-containing enzymes called hydrogenases. These enzymes catalyze the reversible redox reaction between H2 and its component two protons and two electrons. Creation of hydrogen gas occurs in the transfer of reducing equivalents produced during pyruvate fermentation to water. Hydrogen has been found to be a metabolite of Citrobacter, Cyanobacteria, Enterobacter, Halobacterium and Rhodobacteraceae (PMID: 28042989; PMID: 16371161) (https://www.insa.nic.in/writereaddata/UpLoadedFiles/PINSA/Vol51B_1985_2_Art16.pdf) (https://www.researchgate.net/publication/222428793_High_Hydrogen_Yield_from_a_Two-step_Process_of_Dark-_and_Photo-fermentation_of_Sucrose) (Tao, Y; Chen, Y; Wu, Y; He, Y; Zhou, Z (2007). ""High hydrogen yield from a two-step process of dark- and photo-fermentation of sucrose"". International Journal of Hydrogen Energy. 32 (2): 200-206).",expected,2.0159,2.015650064,liquid,,UFHFLCQGNIYNRP-UHFFFAOYSA-N
84,HMDB0001370,diaminopimelic acid,C7H14N2O4,Diaminopimelic acid or DAPA is a lysine-like amino acid derivative that is a key component of the bacterial cell wall. DAPA is incorporated or integrated into peptidoglycan of gram negative bacteria and is the attachment point for Braun's lipoprotein (BLP or Murein Lipoprotein). BLP is found in gram-negative cell walls and is one of the most abundant membrane proteins. BLP is bound at its C-terminal end (a lysine) by a covalent bond to the peptidoglycan layer (specifically to diaminopimelic acid molecules) and is embedded in the outer membrane by its hydrophobic head (a cysteine with lipids attached). BLP tightly links the two layers and provides structural integrity to the bacterial outer membrane. Diaminopimelic acid can be found in human urine or feces due to the lysis or enzymatic breakdown of gram negative gut microbes.,quantified,190.1971,190.095356946,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",GMKMEZVLHJARHF-WHFBIAKZSA-N
85,HMDB0001376,2-keto-3-deoxy-6-phosphogluconic acid,C6H11O9P,"2-Keto-3-deoxy-6-phosphogluconic acid is a substrate for Fructose-bisphosphate aldolase A. It can be found in Achromobacter, Alcaligenes, Clostridium and Rhodobacteraceae (PMID: 5383859; PMID: 5304016) (M. Szymona and M. Doudoroff.  Carbohydrate Metabolism in Rhodopseudomonas spheroides. J. Gen. Microbiol (1960). 22: 167-183).",expected,258.1199,258.014068462,solid,,OVPRPPOVAXRCED-WVZVXSGGSA-N
86,HMDB0001392,p-aminobenzoic acid,C7H7NO2,"p-Aminobenzoic acid, also known as 4-aminobenzoic acid or PABA, is an organic compound with molecular formula C7H7NO2. PABA is a white crystalline substance that is only slightly soluble in water. It consists of a benzene ring substituted with an amino group and a carboxylic acid. PABA is an essential nutrient for some bacteria and is sometimes called vitamin Bx. However, PABA is not essential for humans and it varies in its activity from other B vitamins. PABA is sometimes marketed as an essential nutrient under the premise that it can stimulate intestinal bacteria. Certain bacteria in the human intestinal tract such as E. coli generate PABA from chorismate. Humans lack the enzymes to convert PABA into folate, and therefore require folate from dietary sources such as green leafy vegetables. Although some intestinal bacteria can synthesize folate from PABA and some E. coli can synthesize folate this requires six enzymatic activities in folate synthesis which are not all done in the same bacteria. PABA used to be a common sunscreen agent until it was found to also be a sensitizer. The potassium salt of PABA is used therapeutically in fibrotic skin disorders. PABA can also be found in Acetobacter (DOI: 10.3181/00379727-52-14147).",quantified,137.136,137.047678473,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",ALYNCZNDIQEVRV-UHFFFAOYSA-N
87,HMDB0001414,putrescine,C4H12N2,"Putrescine is a polyamine. Putrescine is related to cadaverine (another polyamine). Both are produced by the breakdown of amino acids in living and dead organisms and both are toxic in large doses. Putrescine and cadaverine are largely responsible for the foul odor of putrefying flesh, but also contribute to the odor of such processes as bad breath and bacterial vaginosis. Putrescine has been identified as a uremic toxin according to the European Uremic Toxin Working Group (PMID:22626821). It is also found in semen. Putrescine attacks s-adenosyl methionine and converts it to spermidine. Spermidine in turn attacks another s-adenosyl methionine and converts it to spermine. Putrescine is synthesized in small quantities by healthy living cells by the action of ornithine decarboxylase. The polyamines, of which putrescine is one of the simplest, appear to be growth factors necessary for cell division. Putrescine apparently has specific role in skin physiology and neuroprotection. (PMID:15009201, 16364196). Pharmacological interventions have demonstrated convincingly that a steady supply of polyamines is a prerequisite for cell proliferation to occur. Genetic engineering of polyamine metabolism in transgenic rodents has shown that polyamines play a role in spermatogenesis, skin physiology, promotion of tumorigenesis and organ hypertrophy as well as neuronal protection. Transgenic activation of polyamine catabolism not only profoundly disturbs polyamine homeostasis in most tissues, but also creates a complex phenotype affecting skin, female fertility, fat depots, pancreatic integrity and regenerative growth. Transgenic expression of ornithine decarboxylase antizyme has suggested that this unique protein may act as a general tumor suppressor. Homozygous deficiency of the key biosynthetic enzymes of the polyamines, ornithine and S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase is not compatible with murine embryogenesis. Putrescine can be found in Citrobacter, Corynebacterium, Cronobacter and Enterobacter (PMID:27872963) (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/1541-4337.12099).",quantified,88.1515,88.100048394,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",KIDHWZJUCRJVML-UHFFFAOYSA-N
88,HMDB0001530,mannitol 1-phosphate,C6H15O9P,"Mannitol 1-phosphate is a sugar alcohol. Mannitol 1-phosphate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.17) reduces fructose 6-phosphate into mannitol 1-phosphate in the gastrointestinal tract of mammals and the mannitol cycle of organisms such as Lactobacillus plantarum, a lactic acid bacterium found in many fermented food products. Mannitol 1-phosphate is also produced in many organisms that have a range of biological interactions with humans (e.g. A. niger, A. parasiticus, B. subtilis, C. difficile, E. faecalis, E. coli, K. pneumoniae, L. salivarius, M. hyopneumoniae, M. mycoides, M. pneumoniae, P. multocida, S. typhi, S. typhimurium, S. aureus, S. pneumoniae, V. cholerae, V. parahaemolyticus, Y. pestis).",expected,262.1517,262.04536859,solid,,GACTWZZMVMUKNG-KVTDHHQDSA-N
89,HMDB0001659,acetone,C3H6O,"Acetone, or propanone, is an organic compound with the formula (CH3)2CO. It is the simplest and smallest ketone. It is a colourless, highly volatile and flammable liquid with a characteristic pungent odour. Acetone is miscible with water and serves as an important organic solvent in its own right, in industry, home, and laboratory. Acetone is produced and disposed of in the human body through normal metabolic processes. It is normally present in blood and urine. People with diabetic ketoacidosis produce it in larger amounts. Acetone is not regarded as a waste product of metabolism. However, its physiological role in biochemical machinery is not clear. A model for the role of acetone metabolism is presented that orders the events occurring in acetonemia in sequence: in diabetic ketosis or starvation, ketone body production (b-hydroxy-butyrate, acetoacetate) provides fuel for vital organs (heart, brain, among others) raising the chance of survival of the metabolic catastrophe. However, when ketone body production exceeds the degrading capacity, the accumulating acetoacetic acid presents a new challenge to the pH regulatory system. Acetone production and its further degradation to C3 fragments fulfill two purposes: the maintenance of pH buffering capacity and provision of fuel for peripheral tissues. Since ketosis develops under serious metabolic circumstances, all the mechanisms that balance or moderate the effects of ketosis enhance the chance for survival. From this point of view, the theory that transportable C3 fragments can serve as additional nutrients is a novel view of acetone metabolism which introduces a new approach to the study of acetone degradation, especially in understanding its physiological function and the interrelationship between liver and peripheral tissues. (PMID 10580530). Acetone is typically derived from acetoacetate through the action of microbial acetoacetate decarboxylases found in gut microflora. In chemistry, acetone is the simplest representative of the ketones. Acetone is a colorless, mobile, flammable liquid readily soluble in water, ethanol, ether, etc., and itself serves as an important solvent. It is an irritant and inhalation may lead to hepatotoxic effects (causing liver damage). Acetone can be found in Clostridium (PMID:685531).",quantified,58.0791,58.041864814,liquid,"['blood', 'breast milk', 'breath', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",CSCPPACGZOOCGX-UHFFFAOYSA-N
90,HMDB0001856,protocatechuic acid,C7H6O4,"Protocatechuic acid, also known as protocatechuate or 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as hydroxybenzoic acid derivatives. Hydroxybenzoic acid derivatives are compounds containing a hydroxybenzoic acid (or a derivative), which is a benzene ring bearing a carboxyl and a hydroxyl groups. The enzyme protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase uses 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate and O2 to produce 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate. Protocatechuic acid is a drug. In the analogous hardening of the cockroach ootheca, the phenolic substance concerned is protocatechuic acid. Protocatechuic acid is a mild, balsamic, and phenolic tasting compound. Outside of the human body, protocatechuic acid is found, on average, in the highest concentration in a few different foods, such as garden onions, cocoa powders, and star anises and in a lower concentration in lentils, liquors, and red raspberries. Protocatechuic acid has also been detected, but not quantified in several different foods, such as cloud ear fungus, american pokeweeds, common mushrooms, fruits, and feijoa. This could make protocatechuic acid a potential biomarker for the consumption of these foods. It is also found in Allium cepa (17,540 ppm). It is a major metabolite of antioxidant polyphenols found in green tea. Similarly, PCA was reported to increase proliferation and inhibit apoptosis of neural stem cells. In vitro testing documented antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activity of PCA, while liver protection in vivo was measured by chemical markers and histological assessment.",quantified,154.121,154.026608673,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",YQUVCSBJEUQKSH-UHFFFAOYSA-N
91,HMDB0001858,p-cresol,C7H8O,"para-Cresol, also 4-methylphenol, is an organic compound with the formula CH3C6H4(OH). P-cresol is a cresol that consists of toluene substituted by a hydroxy group at position 4. It is a metabolite of aromatic amino acid metabolism produced by intestinal microflora in humans and animals. It has a role as a uremic toxin, a human metabolite and an Escherichia coli metabolite. It is a colourless solid that is widely used intermediate in the production of other chemicals. It is a derivative of phenol and is an isomer of o-cresol and m-cresol. It is a partially lipophilic moiety which strongly binds to plasma protein (close to 100%) under normal conditions. p-Cresol is metabolized through conjugation, mainly sulphation and glucuronization, but removal of the unconjugated p-cresol is, at least in part, via the urine. Therefore it is not surprising that this compound, together with several other phenoles, is retained when the kidneys fail. P-Cresol is an end-product of protein breakdown, and an increase of the nutritional protein load in healthy individuals results in enhanced generation and urinary excretion. The serum p-cresol concentration in uremic patients can be decreased by changing to a low-protein diet. p-Cresol is one of the metabolites of the amino acid tyrosine, and to a certain extent also of phenylalanine, which are converted to 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid by intestinal bacteria, before being decarboxylated to p-cresol (putrefaction). The main contributing bacteria are aerobes (mainly enterobacteria), but to a certain extent also anaerobes play a role (mainly Clostridium perfringens). In uremia, modifications in the intestinal flora result in the specific overgrowth of bacteria that are specific p-cresol producers. The administration of antibiotics reduces urinary excretion of p-cresol, as a result of the liquidation of the producing bacteria. Environmental factors might also contribute. The liver cytochrome P450 metabolizes toluene to benzyl alcohol, but also to o-cresol and p-cresol. Toluene is not only used industrially, but it is also the most widely abusively inhaled solvent. Furthermore, p-cresol is a metabolite of menthofuran, one of the metabolites of R-(+)-pulegone, which is found in extracts from the plants Mentha pulegium and Hedeoma pulegioides, commonly known as pennyroyal oil and pennyroyal tea. These extracts are popular as unconventional herbal therapeutic agents and are applied as abortiva, diaphoretics, emmenagogues, and psychedelic drugs. Pennyroyal oil is extensively used for its pleasant mint-like smell in the flavoring industry. The toxicity of pennyroyal oil and menthofuran is well known. Another compound used in traditional medicine, especially in Japan, which is a precursor of p-cresol is wood tar creosote. p-Cresol has been reported to affect several biochemical, biological and physiological functions: (i) it diminishes the oxygen uptake of rat cerebral cortex slices; (ii) it increases the free active drug concentration of warfarin and diazepam; (iii) it has been related to growth retardation in the weanling pig; (iv) it alters cell membrane permeability, at least in bacteria; (v) it induces LDH leakage from rat liver slices; (vi) it induces susceptibility to auditive epileptic crises; and (vii) it blocks cell K+ channels. (PMID:10570076). p-Cresol is a uremic toxin that is at least partially removed by peritoneal dialysis in haemodialysis patients, and has been involved in the progression of renal failure (PMID:11169029). At concentrations encountered during uremia, p-cresol inhibits phagocyte function and decreases leukocyte adhesion to cytokine-stimulated endothelial cells. (PMID:14681860). p-Cresol can be found in Bacteroides, Bifidobacterium, Clostridium, Enterobacter and Lactobacillus (PMID:2394806; PMID:30208103). As a volatile organic compound, it has been identified as a fecal biomarker of Clostridium difficile infection (PMID:30986230).",quantified,108.1378,108.057514878,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",IWDCLRJOBJJRNH-UHFFFAOYSA-N
92,HMDB0001870,benzoic acid,C7H6O2,"Benzoic acid, C6H5COOH, is a colourless crystalline solid and the simplest aromatic carboxylic acid. Benzoic acid occurs naturally free and bound as benzoic acid esters in many plant and animal species. Appreciable amounts have been found in most berries (around 0.05%). Cranberries contain as much as 300-1300 mg free benzoic acid per kg fruit. Benzoic acid is a fungistatic compound that is widely used as a food preservative. It often is conjugated to glycine in the liver and excreted as hippuric acid. Benzoic acid is a byproduct of phenylalanine metabolism in bacteria. It is also produced when gut bacteria process polyphenols (from ingested fruits or beverages). It can be found in Serratia (PMID:23061754).",quantified,122.123,122.036779433,solid,"['blood', 'breath', 'feces', 'saliva', 'sweat', 'urine']",WPYMKLBDIGXBTP-UHFFFAOYSA-N
93,HMDB0001964,caffeic acid,C9H8O4,Caffeic acid (CAS: 331-39-5) is a polyphenol present in normal human urine positively correlated to coffee consumption and influenced by the dietary intake of diverse types of food (PMID:16870009). Caffeic acid has been found to be a microbial metabolite of Escherichia (PMID: 28396925).,quantified,180.1574,180.042258744,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",QAIPRVGONGVQAS-DUXPYHPUSA-N
94,HMDB0001988,4-hydroxycyclohexylcarboxylic acid,C7H12O3,4-Hydroxycyclohexylcarboxylic acid is a rare compound in urinary organic acid analysis. It has been found to be a metabolite of Arthrobacter (http://www.nrcresearchpress.com/doi/pdf/10.1139/m74-202).,quantified,144.1684,144.07864425,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",HCFRWBBJISAZNK-UHFFFAOYSA-N
95,HMDB0002048,m-cresol,C7H8O,"m-Cresol is an isomer of p-cresol and o-cresol. Cresols are organic compounds which are methylphenols. They are a widely occurring natural and manufactured group of aromatic organic compounds which are categorized as phenols (sometimes called phenolics). Depending on the temperature, cresols can be solid or liquid because they have melting points not far from room temperature. Like other types of phenols, they are slowly oxidized by long exposure to air and the impurities often give cresols a yellowish to brownish red tint. Cresols have an odor characteristic to that of other simple phenols, reminiscent to some of a ""medicine"" smell. Cresol solutions are used as household cleaners and disinfectants, perhaps most famously under the trade name Lysol. In the past, cresol solutions have been used as antiseptics in surgery, but they have been largely displaced in this role by less toxic compounds. Lysol was also advertised as a disinfecting vaginal douche in mid-twentieth century America. Cresols are found in many foods and in wood and tobacco smoke, crude oil, coal tar, and in brown mixtures such as creosote and cresylic acids, which are wood preservatives. Small organisms in soil and water produce cresols when they break down materials in the environment. Most exposures to cresols are at very low levels that are not harmful. When cresols are breathed, ingested, or applied to the skin at very high levels, they can be very harmful. Effects observed in people include irritation and burning of skin, eyes, mouth, and throat; abdominal pain and vomiting; heart damage; anemia; liver and kidney damage; facial paralysis; coma; and death. Breathing high levels of cresols for a short time results in irritation of the nose and throat. Aside from these effects, very little is known about the effects of breathing cresols, for example, at lower levels over longer times. Ingesting high levels results in kidney problems, mouth and throat burns, abdominal pain, vomiting, and effects on the blood and nervous system. Skin contact with high levels of cresols can burn the skin and damage the kidneys, liver, blood, brain, and lungs. m-Cresol is a microbial metabolite that can be found in Lysinibacillus.",quantified,108.1378,108.057514878,liquid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",RLSSMJSEOOYNOY-UHFFFAOYSA-N
96,HMDB0002055,o-cresol,C7H8O,"o-Cresol is a minor urinary metabolite of toluene, O-cresol is a cresol that is phenol substituted by a methyl group at position 2. It is a minor urinary metabolite of toluene. It has a role as a human xenobiotic metabolite. It is widely used chemical with neurotoxicological properties (PMID:15687000). o-Cresol is used commercially as a disinfectant. Exposure may occur by inhalation, by cutaneous adsorption or by oral ingestion. o-Cresol denature and precipitate cellular proteins and thus may rapidly cause poisoning. o-Cresol is metabolized by conjugation and oxidation. Ingestion of o-Cresol cause intense burning of mouth and throat, followed by marked abdominal pain and distress. The minimum lethal dose of cresol by mouth is about 2 g (PMID 15040915). o-Cresol is a microbial metabolite that can be found in Pseudomonas. Besides, o-Cresol is one of the chemical compounds found in castoreum. This compound is gathered from the beaver's castor glands and found in the white cedar consumed by the beavers. Together with many other compounds, o-cresol is traditionally extracted from coal tar, the volatile materials obtained in the production of coke from coal. A similar source material is petroleum residues. These residue contains a few percent by weight of phenol and isomeric cresols. In addition to the materials derived from these natural sources, about two thirds of the Western world's supply is produced by methylation of phenol using methanol.",quantified,108.1378,108.057514878,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",QWVGKYWNOKOFNN-UHFFFAOYSA-N
97,HMDB0002064,n-acetylputrescine,C6H14N2O,"N-Acetylputrescine is a polyamine commonly occurring excreted in normal human urine (PMID 7775374). N-Acetylputrescine is the most abundant of all polyamines both in normal individuals and in patients with leukemia (PMID 9464484). N-Acetylputrescine is the N-acetylated form of the naturally occurring polyamine called putrescine. The N-acetylation is mediated by the enzyme diamine N-acetyltransferase. Putrescine is related to cadaverine (another polyamine). Both are produced by the breakdown of amino acids in living and dead organisms and both are toxic in large doses. Putrescine and cadaverine are largely responsible for the foul odor of putrefying flesh, but also contribute to the odor of such processes as bad breath and bacterial vaginosis. Putrescine is also found in semen. Putrescine attacks s-adenosyl methionine and converts it to spermidine. Spermidine in turn attacks another s-adenosyl methionine and converts it to spermine. Putrescine is synthesized in small quantities by healthy living cells by the action of ornithine decarboxylase. N-Acetylputrescine can be found in Corynebacterium as well (PMID:25919117).",quantified,130.1882,130.11061308,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",KLZGKIDSEJWEDW-UHFFFAOYSA-N
98,HMDB0002085,syringic acid,C9H10O5,"Syringic acid, also known as syringate or cedar acid, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as gallic acid and derivatives. Gallic acid and derivatives are compounds containing a 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid moiety. Outside of the human body, Syringic acid is found, on average, in the highest concentration within a few different foods, such as common walnuts, swiss chards, and olives and in a lower concentration in apples, tarragons, and peanuts. Syringic acid has also been detected, but not quantified in several different foods, such as sweet marjorams, silver lindens, bulgurs, annual wild rices, and barley. This could make syringic acid a potential biomarker for the consumption of these foods. Syringic acid is correlated with high antioxidant activity and inhibition of LDL oxidation. Research suggests that phenolics from wine may play a positive role against oxidation of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), which is a key step in the development of atherosclerosis. Syringic acid is a phenol present in some distilled alcohol beverages. It is also a product of microbial (gut) metabolism of anthocyanins and other polyphenols that have been consumed (in fruits and alcoholic beverages - PMID:18767860). Syringic acid is also a microbial metabolite that can be found in Bifidobacterium (PMID:24958563).",quantified,198.174,198.052823422,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",JMSVCTWVEWCHDZ-UHFFFAOYSA-N
99,HMDB0002092,itaconic acid,C5H6O4,"Itaconic acid is a dicarboxylic acid that is methacrylic acid in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by a carboxylic acid group. It has a role as a fungal metabolite and a human metabolite. It is a dicarboxylic acid and an olefinic compound. It derives from a succinic acid. It is a conjugate acid of an itaconate(2-). This dicarboxylic acid is a white solid that is soluble in water, ethanol, and acetone. Historically, itaconic acid was obtained by the distillation of citric acid, but currently it is produced by fermentation. The name itaconic acid was devised as an anagram of aconitic acid, another derivative of citric acid. Itaconic acid, also known as itaconate, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as branched fatty acids. These are fatty acids containing a branched chain. Itaconic acid is a very hydrophobic molecule, practically insoluble in water, and relatively neutral. Since the 1960s, it is produced industrially by the fermentation of carbohydrates such as glucose or molasses using fungi such as Aspergillus itaconicus or Aspergillus terreus. For A. terreus the itaconate pathway is mostly elucidated. The generally accepted route for itaconate is via glycolysis, tricarboxylic acid cycle, and a decarboxylation of cis-aconitate to itaconate via cis-aconitate-decarboxylase. The smut fungus Ustilago maydis uses an alternative route. Cis-aconitate is converted to the thermodynamically favoured trans-aconitate via aconitate-Δ-isomerase (Adi1). trans-Aconitate is further decarboxylated to itaconate by trans-aconitate-decarboxylase (Tad1). Itaconic acid is also produced in cells of macrophage lineage. It was shown that itaconate is a covalent inhibitor of the enzyme isocitrate lyase in vitro. As such, itaconate may possess antibacterial activities against bacteria expressing isocitrate lyase (such as Salmonella enterica and Mycobacterium tuberculosis). It is also sythesized in the laboratory, where dry distillation of citric acid affords itaconic anhydride, which undergoes hydrolysis to itaconic acid.",detected,130.0987,130.02660868,solid,"['blood', 'sweat', 'urine']",LVHBHZANLOWSRM-UHFFFAOYSA-N
100,HMDB0002096,3-indolebutyric acid,C12H13NO2,"3-Indolebutyric acid is an indolic tryptophan metabolite occasionally found in human urine. (PMID:7130309). 3-Indolebutyric acid is a plasma and urinary tryptophan-related metabolite related to metabolic and skin diseases. (PMID:15206797). Plasma levels of tryptophan metabolites in the umbilical vein and artery are significantly higher than those in the maternal vein. (PMID:1506727). 3-Indolebutyric acid has been shown to accelerated glucose uptake in the rat diaphragm. (PMID:6025019). 3-Indolebutyric acid is also a microbial netabolite, urinary indole-3-butyrate is produced by Clostridia sp. (PMID:6630445).",detected,203.2371,203.094628665,solid,['blood'],JTEDVYBZBROSJT-UHFFFAOYSA-N
101,HMDB0002199,desaminotyrosine,C9H10O3,"Desaminotyrosine, also known as 4-hydroxyphenylpropionic acid, is a normal constituent of human urine. It is a product of tyrosine metabolism; its concentration in urine increases in patients with gastrointestinal diseases. Desaminotyrosine is a major phenolic acid breakdown product of proanthocyanidin metabolism (PMID:15315398). Urinary desaminotyrosine is produced by Clostridium sporogenes and C. botulinum (PMID:29168502). Desaminotyrosine is also found in Acinetobacter, Bacteroides, Bifidobacteria, Bifidobacterium, Clostridium, Enterococcus, Escherichia, Eubacterium, Klebsiella, Lactobacillus, Pseudomonas, and Staphylococcus (PMID:29168502, 28393285, 19961416). Desaminotyrosine is a phenolic acid metabolite formed by the gut microflora detected after the consumption of whole grain.",quantified,166.1739,166.062994186,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",NMHMNPHRMNGLLB-UHFFFAOYSA-N
102,HMDB0002209,equol,C15H14O3,"Equol is a metabolite of daidzein, a phytoestrogen common in the human diet and abundant in soy. Intestinal bacteria in humans can reduce daidzein to equol, and can be found in normal human urine. The clinical effectiveness of soy isoflavones may be a function of the ability to biotransform soy isoflavones to the more potent estrogenic metabolite, equol, which may enhance the actions of soy isoflavones, owing to its greater affinity for estrogen receptors, unique antiandrogenic properties, and superior antioxidant activity. However, not all individuals consuming daidzein produce equol. Only approximately one-third to one-half of the population is able to metabolize daidzein to equol. This high variability in equol production is presumably attributable to interindividual differences in the composition of the intestinal microflora, which may play an important role in the mechanisms of action of isoflavones. (PMID: 17579895, 17579894). Equol can be found in Bacteroides, Bifidobacterium, Enterococcus, Lactobacillus and Eggerthella (PMID: 20519412; PMID: 18838805).",quantified,242.2699,242.094294314,solid,"['blood', 'urine']",ADFCQWZHKCXPAJ-GFCCVEGCSA-N
103,HMDB0002252,benzoyl-coa,C28H40N7O17P3S,"Benzoyl-CoA is an intermediate in phenylalanine (as well as benzoate and salicylate) metabolism. In bacteria and gut microflora, benzoyl-CoA is a compound that is formed as a central intermediate in the degradation of a large number of aromatic growth substrates. Benzoyl CoA can be synthesized from hippuric acid and vice versa. Benzoyl-CoA is a microbial metabolite that can be found in Streptomyces (PMID: 12511484).",expected,871.64,871.141423115,solid,,VEVJTUNLALKRNO-TYHXJLICSA-N
104,HMDB0002302,indole-3-propionic acid,C11H11NO2,"Indole-3-propionic acid (IPA, indole-3-propionate, or indole propionic acid), is a reductive product of tryptophan formed by bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract of mammals and birds (PMID:29168502). It is endogenously produced by human microbiota and has only been detected in vivo (PMID:19234110). While many microbial metabolites produced in the gut are toxic or act as uremic toxins (when they are reabsorbed through the gut epithelia), indole-3-propionic acid is a very beneficial microbial metabolite (PMID:30914514, 30862081, 29238104). In limited studies, urinary IPA correlates positively with disease and it remains unclear if this represents host bacteria responding to pathology via the production of IPA, or intestinal permeability changes leading to higher absorption and excretion of IPA, or inflammatory changes within kidneys leading to high excretion of IPA (PMID:32132996). Indole-3-propionic acid is a remarkably strong antioxidant (PMID:10721080). It is an even more potent scavenger of hydroxyl radicals than melatonin, the most potent scavenger of hydroxyl radicals synthesized by the human body. Similar to melatonin but unlike other antioxidants, indole-3-propionic acid scavenges radicals without subsequently generating reactive and pro-oxidant intermediate compounds (PMID:9928448, 10419516). Indole-3-propionic acid has been shown to prevent oxidative stress and the death of primary neurons and neuroblastoma cells exposed to the amyloid beta-protein in the form of amyloid fibrils, one of the most prominent neuropathologic features of Alzheimer's disease. 3-Indolepropionic acid also shows a strong level of neuroprotection in two other paradigms of oxidative stress. (PMID 10419516) More recently it has been found that higher indole-3-propionic acid levels in serum/plasma are associated with a reduced likelihood of type 2 diabetes and with higher levels of consumption of fibre-rich foods (PMID:28397877). Studies have shown that serum levels of indole-3-propionic acid are positively correlated with dietary fibre intake and negatively correlated with C-reactive protein levels (PMID:29795366). Indole-3-propionic acid is a marker for the presence of Clostridium sporogenes in the gut. Higher levels are associated with higher levels of Clostridium sporogenes (PMID:7378938). In addition to its useful physiological role in mammals, indole-3-propionic acid is a plant hormone with functions similar to indole-3-acetic acid (or IAA), the major plant auxin. Recent studies have shed some light on additional mechanisms of action of IPA. In the intestine, IPA could serve as a ligand to an adopted orphan nuclear receptor, Pregnane X receptor (PXR) and act as an anti-inflammatory agent (PMID:25065623). This property has allowed investigators to develop more potent analogs targeting PXR (PMID:32153125). Other tissues may also be targeted by IPA in a similar manner (PMID:31211619).",quantified,189.2105,189.078978601,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",GOLXRNDWAUTYKT-UHFFFAOYSA-N
105,HMDB0002303,dimethylsulfide,C2H6S,"Dimethylsulfide is the predominant volatile sulfur compound (VSC) in breadth malodor, a metabolite of suplatast tosilate (a dimethylsulphonium compound for the treatment of asthma) in patients that regularly take that medication. (PMID 14628896). Dimethylsulfide is a sulfur containing organic chemical compound with a disagreeable odor. In vapor form it is produced by cooking of certain vegetables, notably corn and cabbage, and seafood. It is also an indication of bacterial infection in malt production and brewing. It is a breakdown product of dimethylsulfoniopropionate, and is also produced by the bacterial metabolism of methanethiol. Dimethylsulfide in concentrated liquid form is insoluble and a flammable. This is a microbial metabolite that can be found in Bradyrhizobium, Cyanothece, Escherichia, Pseudomonas and Rhizobiaceae (PMID:25807229).",quantified,62.134,62.019020882,liquid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'feces', 'urine']",QMMFVYPAHWMCMS-UHFFFAOYSA-N
106,HMDB0002322,cadaverine,C5H14N2,"Cadaverine is a foul-smelling diamine formed by bacterial decarboxylation of lysine that occurs during protein hydrolysis during putrefaction of animal tissue. However, this diamine is not purely associated with putrefaction. Cadaverine is a toxic diamine with the formula NH2(CH2)5NH2, which is similar to putrescine's NH2(CH2)4NH2. Cadaverine is also known by the names 1,5-pentanediamine and pentamethylenediamine. It is also produced in small quantities by mammals. In particular, it is partially responsible for the distinctive smell of urine and semen. Elevated levels of cadaverine have been found in the urine of some patients with defects in lysine metabolism. Cadaverine is toxic in large doses. In rats it had a low acute oral toxicity of more than 2000 mg/kg body weight. Cadaverine can be found in Corynebacterium (PMID:27872963).",quantified,102.1781,102.115698458,liquid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",VHRGRCVQAFMJIZ-UHFFFAOYSA-N
107,HMDB0002349,trans-trans-muconic acid,C6H6O4,"trans,trans-Muconic acid is a urinary metabolite of benzene and has been used as a biomarker of exposure to benzene in humans exposed to levels as low as 1 ppm. However, muconic acid may also be derived from sorbic acid and its salts. Dietary supplementation with 500 mg sorbic acid significantly increases the urinary trans,trans-muconic acid excretion. Under study conditions, 0.12% of the sorbic acid dose is excreted in urine as trans,trans-muconic acid thereby indicating that a typical dietary intake of 6-30 mg/day of sorbic acid accounts for 10-50% of the background of trans,trans-muconic acid excretion in nonsmokers, and for 5-25% in smokers (PMID: 8021961, 1487326, 9137998, Int Arch Occup Environ Health. 1997;69(4):247-51.). trans,trans-Muconic acid has been found to be a metabolite in Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas putida (PMID: 26360870).",quantified,142.1094,142.02660868,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",TXXHDPDFNKHHGW-ZPUQHVIOSA-N
108,HMDB0002466,3-hydroxybenzoic acid,C7H6O3,"3-Hydroxybenzoic acid, also known as 3-hydroxybenzoate or 3-carboxyphenol, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as hydroxybenzoic acid derivatives. Hydroxybenzoic acid derivatives are compounds containing a hydroxybenzoic acid (or a derivative), which is a benzene ring bearing a carboxyl and a hydroxyl groups. 3-Hydroxybenzoic acid exists in all living organisms, ranging from bacteria to humans. Outside of the human body, 3-hydroxybenzoic acid is found, on average, in the highest concentration in american cranberries and beers. 3-hydroxybenzoic acid has also been detected, but not quantified in a few different foods, such as bilberries, citrus, and corns. As well, 3-Hydroxybenzoic Acid can be found in the pineapple fruit. It can also be formed by a Pseudomonas species from 3-Chlorobenzoic acid. 3-Hydroxybenzoic acid is a monohydroxybenzoic acid. 3-Hydroxybenzoic acid can be obtained by the alkali fusion of 3-sulfobenzoic acid between 210-220 °C. 3-Hydroxybenzoic acid is a component of castoreum, the exudate from the castor sacs of the mature North American beaver (Castor canadensis) and the European beaver (Castor fiber), used in perfumery.",quantified,138.122,138.031694053,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",IJFXRHURBJZNAO-UHFFFAOYSA-N
109,HMDB0002643,3-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-3-hydroxypropanoic acid,C9H10O4,"3-(3-Hydroxyphenyl)-3-hydroxypropanoic acid (HPHPA) is an organic acid detected in human urine. It is relatively abundant in adult human urine and it is normally relatively benign. It is thought that the presence of this acid is from nutritional sources (i.e. dietary phenylalanine or polyphenols). However, there has been a considerable degree of ambiguity in the origin and/or significance of this compound (PMID:11978597). Recently, it has been reported that HPHPA is actually an abnormal phenylalanine metabolite arising from bacterial metabolism in the gastrointestinal tract. Specifically, HPHPA appears to arise from the action of the anaerobic bacteria Clostridia sp. (PMID:20423563; PMID:24063620). Elevated levels of HPHPA have been reported in the urine of children with autism as well as in adult patients with schizophrenia. It has been proposed that HPHPA may be a bacterial metabolite of m-tyrosine, a tyrosine analog that causes symptoms of autism in experimental animals. Under certain conditions, HPHPA can act as a neurotoxin and a metabotoxin. A neurotoxin causes damage to nerve cells and nerve tissues. A metabotoxin is an endogenously produced metabolite that causes adverse health effects at chronically high levels. Chronically high levels of HPHPA are associated with autism and schizophrenia. The mechanism by which HPHPA exerts its toxic effects is not clear.  It may function as a catecholamine analog and disrupt catecholamine signalling, especially in younger individuals. Alternately, HPHPA may function as an amino acid analog to tyrosine and phenylalanine.  High plasma concentrations of phenylalanine (and possibly HPHPA) are known to influence the blood-brain barrier transport of large neutral amino acids. This altered transport is believed to interfere with the function of different cerebral enzyme systems in the developing brain. Studies have shown that higher levels of HPHPA are associated with overgrowth of Clostridia in the gut, including Clostridium difficile, Clostridium sporogenes, Clostridium botulinum, Clostridium calortolerans, Clostridium mangenoyi, Clostridium ghoni, Clostridium bifermentans, Clostridium sordelli. (PMID:20423563; PMID:24063620)",quantified,182.1733,182.057908808,solid,"['blood', 'urine']",KHTAGVZHYUZYMF-UHFFFAOYSA-N
110,HMDB0002658,6-hydroxynicotinic acid,C6H5NO3,"6-Hydroxynicotinic acid (6-OHNA) is exploited in the use of NMR spectroscopy or gas chromatography--mass spectrometry for the diagnosis of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in urinary tract infection. Among the common bacteria causing urinary infection, only P. aeruginosa produces 6-hydroxynicotinic acid from nicotinic acid. Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection has been reported to be the third leading cause of urinary infection, accounting for 11% of such infections, the first and second being Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumonia, respectively. Analyses of the NMR spectra of the bacterial media with variable cell count of P. aeruginosa, shows that the intensity of the signals of the 6-hydroxynicotinic acid increases with increasing number of bacterial cells (PMID:3926801, 15759292). 6-hydroxynicotinic acid can also be found in Achromobacter and Serratia.",quantified,139.1088,139.026943031,solid,"['feces', 'urine']",BLHCMGRVFXRYRN-UHFFFAOYSA-N
111,HMDB0002714,methane,CH4,"Methane (CH4), is a gas produced by a group of colonic anaerobes, absorbed from the colon and excreted in expired air. As a result, breath CH4 excretion can be used as an indicator of the in situ activity of the methanogenic flora. All CH4 produced in human beings is a metabolic product of intestinal bacteria, and about 50% of CH4 produced in the gut is absorbed and excreted in expired air. Because there appears to be no catabolism of this gas by other colonic organisms or host cells, breath CH4 measurements provide a rapid, simple means of semi quantitatively assessing the ongoing in situ metabolism of the methanogenic flora. It could seem likely that the intracolonic activity of a variety of bacteria similarly might be assessed quantitatively via analysis of expired air. However, the application of this methodology has been confounded by the rapid catabolism of many volatile bacterial products by other bacteria or human tissue. A striking aspect of the studies of breath CH4 measurements is the enormous individual variations in the excretion of this gas. Virtually all children under 5 years of age and 66% of the adult population do not exhale appreciable quantities of CH4. The remaining 34% of the adult population has appreciable breath methane concentrations of up to 80 ppm (mean, 15.2 ppm; median, 11.8 ppm). On this basis the population can be divided into CH4 producers or nonproducers, although a more accurate term would be to define subjects as being low or high CH4 producers. The primary methanogen present in the human colon, Methanobrevibacter smithii, produces methane via a reaction that relies entirely on H2 produced by other organisms to reduce CO2 to CH4. Thus, breath CH4 concentrations might be expected to mirror breath H2 concentrations; however, the high levels of CH4 observed in the fasting state may result from H2 derived from endogenous rather than dietary substrates. A diverse assortment of conditions has been associated with a high prevalence of methane producers including diverticulosis, cystic fibrosis, high fasting serum cholesterol levels, encopresis in children, and aorto-iliac vascular disease, whereas obesity (measured as skin-fold thickness) was related inversely to methane production. The challenge that remains is to determine to what extent methanogens actively influence body physiology vs. simply serve as passive indicators of colonic function. (PMID: 16469670, Clinical Gastroenterology and Hepatology Volume 4, Issue 2, February 2006, Pages 123-129). Methane can be found in Desulfovibrio, Methanobacterium, Methanobrevibacter, Methanococcus, Methanocorpusculum, Methanoculleus, Methanoflorens, Methanofollis, Methanogenium, Methanomicrobium, Methanopyrus, Methanoregula, Methanosaeta, Methanosarcina, Methanosphaera, Methanospirillium, Methanothermobacter (Wikipedia).",detected,16.0425,16.031300128,liquid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",VNWKTOKETHGBQD-UHFFFAOYSA-N
112,HMDB0002789,zeaxanthin,C40H56O2,"Zeaxanthin is a carotenoid xanthophyll and is one of the most common carotenoid found in nature. It is the pigment that gives corn, saffron, and many other plants their characteristic color. Zeaxanthin breaks down to form picrocrocin and safranal, which are responsible for the taste and aroma of saffron Carotenoids are among the most common pigments in nature and are natural lipid soluble antioxidants. Zeaxanthin is one of the two carotenoids (the other is lutein) that accumulate in the eye lens and macular region of the retina with concentrations in the macula greater than those found in plasma and other tissues. Lutein and zeaxanthin have identical chemical formulas and are isomers, but they are not stereoisomers. The main difference between them is in the location of a double bond in one of the end rings. This difference gives lutein three chiral centers whereas zeaxanthin has two. A relationship between macular pigment optical density, a marker of lutein and zeaxanthin concentration in the macula, and lens optical density, an antecedent of cataractous changes, has been suggested. The xanthophylls may act to protect the eye from ultraviolet phototoxicity via quenching reactive oxygen species and/or other mechanisms. Some observational studies have shown that generous intakes of lutein and zeaxanthin, particularly from certain xanthophyll-rich foods like spinach, broccoli and eggs, are associated with a significant reduction in the risk for cataract (up to 20%) and for age-related macular degeneration (up to 40%). While the pathophysiology of cataract and age-related macular degeneration is complex and contains both environmental and genetic components, research studies suggest dietary factors including antioxidant vitamins and xanthophylls may contribute to a reduction in the risk of these degenerative eye diseases. Further research is necessary to confirm these observations. (PMID: 11023002). Zeaxanthin has been found to be a microbial metabolite, it can be produced by Algibacter, Aquibacter, Escherichia, Flavobacterium, Formosa, Gramella, Hyunsoonleella, Kordia, Mesoflavibacter, Muricauda, Nubsella, Paracoccus, Siansivirga, Sphingomonas, Zeaxanthinibacter and yeast (https://reader.elsevier.com/reader/sd/pii/S0924224417302571?token=DE6BC6CC7DCDEA6150497AA3E375097A00F8E0C12AE03A8E420D85D1AC8855E62103143B5AE0B57E9C5828671F226801). It is a marker for the activity of Bacillus subtilis and/or Pseudomonas aeruginosa in the intestine. Higher levels are associated with higher levels of Bacillus or Pseudomonas. (PMID: 17555270; PMID: 12147474)",quantified,568.886,568.428031043,solid,['blood'],JKQXZKUSFCKOGQ-QAYBQHTQSA-N
113,HMDB0003156,"2,3-butanediol",C4H10O2,"2,3-Butanediol is an isomer of butanediol. The 2R,3R stereoisomer of 2,3-butanediol is produced by a variety of microorganisms, in a process known as butanediol fermentation. 2,3-Butanediol fermentation is the anaerobic fermentation of glucose with 2,3-butanediol as one of the end products. The overall stoichiometry of the reaction is 2 pyruvate + NADH --> 2CO2 + 2,3-butanediol. Butanediol fermentation is typical for Enterobacter species or microbes found in the gut. 2,3-butanediol has been identified in the sera of alcoholics and it may be a specific marker of alcohol abuse (PMID:6139706). In humans, 2,3-butanediol is oxidized to acetyl-CoA via acetoin. 2,3-Butanediol is also found in cocoa butter. 2,3-Butanediol can also be found in Bacillus, Klebsiella and Serratia (PMID:21272631).",quantified,90.121,90.068079564,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",OWBTYPJTUOEWEK-UHFFFAOYSA-N
114,HMDB0003276,hydrogen sulfide,H2S,"Hydrogen sulfide is a highly toxic and flammable gas. Because it is heavier than air it tends to accumulate at the bottom of poorly ventilated spaces. Although very pungent at first, it quickly deadens the sense of smell, so potential victims may be unaware of its presence until it is too late. H2S arises from virtually anywhere where elemental sulfur comes into contact with organic material, especially at high temperatures. Hydrogen sulfide is a covalent hydride chemically related to water (H2O) since oxygen and sulfur occur in the same periodic table group. It often results when bacteria break down organic matter in the absence of oxygen, such as in swamps, and sewers (alongside the process of anaerobic digestion). It also occurs in volcanic gases, natural gas and some well waters. It is also important to note that Hydrogen sulfide is a central participant in the sulfur cycle, the biogeochemical cycle of sulfur on Earth. As mentioned above, sulfur-reducing and sulfate-reducing bacteria derive energy from oxidizing hydrogen or organic molecules in the absence of oxygen by reducing sulfur or sulfate to hydrogen sulfide. Other bacteria liberate hydrogen sulfide from sulfur-containing amino acids. Several groups of bacteria can use hydrogen sulfide as fuel, oxidizing it to elemental sulfur or to sulfate by using oxygen or nitrate as oxidant. The purple sulfur bacteria and the green sulfur bacteria use hydrogen sulfide as electron donor in photosynthesis, thereby producing elemental sulfur. (In fact, this mode of photosynthesis is older than the mode of cyanobacteria, algae and plants which uses water as electron donor and liberates oxygen). Hydrogen sulfide can be found in Alcaligenes, Chromobacteriumn, Klebsiella, Proteus and Pseudomonas (PMID: 13061742).",quantified,34.081,33.987720754,liquid,"['blood', 'feces']",RWSOTUBLDIXVET-UHFFFAOYSA-N
115,HMDB0003306,phloretin,C15H14O5,"Phloretin is the aglucone of phlorizin, a plant-derived dihydrochalcone phytochemical reported to promote potent antioxidative activities in peroxynitrite scavenging and the inhibition of lipid peroxidation. Phloretin, which is present in apples, pears and tomatoes, has been found to inhibit the growth of several cancer cells and induce apoptosis of B16 melanoma and HL60 human leukemia cells. Phloretin also inhibits HT-29 cell growth by inducing apoptosis, which may be mediated through changes in mitochondrial membrane permeability and activation of the caspase pathways. Phloretin is a well-known inhibitor of eukaryotic urea transporters, blocks VacA-mediated urea and ion transport (PMID:18158826, 11560962, 18063724, 15671209, 12083758). Phloretin is a biomarker for the consumption of apples. Phloretin has been found to be a metabolite of Escherichia (PMID:23542617).",quantified,274.2687,274.084123558,solid,"['blood', 'urine']",VGEREEWJJVICBM-UHFFFAOYSA-N
116,HMDB0003339,d-glutamic acid,C5H9NO4,"There are two forms of glutamic acid found in nature: L-glutamic acid and D-glutamic acid. D-glutamic acid, is not endogenously produced in higher mammals. It is found naturally primarily in the cell walls of certain bacteria. D-glutamate is also present in certain foods e.g., soybeans and also arises from the turnover of the intestinal tract microflora, whose cell walls contain significant D-glutamate. Unlike other D-amino acids, D-glutamate is not oxidized by the D-amino acid oxidases, and therefore this detoxification pathway is not available for handling D-glutamate. Likewise, D-glutamic acid, when ingested, largely escapes most deamination reactions (unlike the L-counterpart). Free D-glutamate is found in mammalian tissue at surprisingly high levels, with D-glutamate accounting for 9% of the total glutamate present in liver. D-glutamate is the most potent natural inhibitor of glutathione synthesis identified to date and this may account for its localization to the liver, since circulating D-glutamate may alter redox stabiity (PMID 11158923). Certain eels are known to use D-glutamic acid as a phermone for chemical communication. D-Glutamic acid has been found to be a metabolite of Lactobacillus (PMID: 22754309).",quantified,147.1293,147.053157781,solid,"['blood', 'breast milk', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",WHUUTDBJXJRKMK-GSVOUGTGSA-N
117,HMDB0003355,5-aminopentanoic acid,C5H11NO2,"5-Aminopentanoic acid (or 5-aminovalerate) is a lysine degradation product.  It can be produced both endogenously or through bacterial catabolism of lysine.  5-aminovalerate is formed via the following multi-step reaction: L-lysine leads to cadverine leads to L-piperideine leads 5-aminovalerate (PMID:405455).  In other words it is a metabolite of cadaverine which is formed via the intermediate, 1-piperideine (PMID:6436440).  Cadaverine is a foul-smelling diamine compound produced by protein hydrolysis during putrefaction of animal tissue. High levels of 5-aminovalerate in biofluids may indicate bacterial overgrowth or endogenous tissue necrosis.  In most cases  endogenous 5-aminovalerate is thought to be primarily a microbial metabolite produced by the gut or oral microflora, although it can be produced endogenously.  5-aminovalerate is a normal metabolite present in human saliva, with a tendency to elevated concentration in patients with chronic periodontitis. Bacterial contamination and decomposition of salivary proteins is primarily responsible for elevated salivary levels (PMID 3481959). Beyond being a general waste product, 5-aminovalerate is also believed to act as a methylene homologue of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and functions as a weak GABA agonist (PMID:4031870). It is also known as an antifibrinolytic amino acid analog and so it functions as a weak inhibitor of the blood clotting pathway (PMID:6703712). 5- aminovalerate is an in vivo substrate of 4-aminobutyrate:2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase (PMID:4031870). It can be found in Corynebacterium (PMID:27717386).",quantified,117.1463,117.078978601,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",JJMDCOVWQOJGCB-UHFFFAOYSA-N
118,HMDB0003447,tryptophol,C10H11NO,"Tryptophol, also known as indole-3-ethanol, is an indolyl alcohol that is ethanol substituted by a 1H-indol-3-yl group at position 2. It has a role as a Saccharomyces cerevisiae metabolite, an auxin and a plant metabolite. Tryptophol is a catabolite of tryptophan converted by the gut microbiota. After absorption through the intestinal epithelium, tryptophan catabolites enter the bloodstream and are later excreted in the urine (PMID:30120222). Tryptophol production was negatively associated with interferon-gamma production (IFNγ) which suggests that tryptophol has anti-inflammatory properties (PMID:27814509). Tryptophol has also been identified as the hypnotic agent in trypanosomal sleeping sickness, and because it is formed in vivo after ethanol or disulfiram treatment, it is also associated with the study of alcoholism (PMID:7241135).",detected,161.2004,161.084063979,solid,"['blood', 'urine']",MBBOMCVGYCRMEA-UHFFFAOYSA-N
119,HMDB0003769,etiocholanedione,C19H28O2,"Etiocholanedione is a 5-beta metabolite product of the catabolism of androgens. Etiocholanedione has been identified as a ketosteroid and isolated from the urine of healthy and diseased persons. Etiocholanedione has been identified as a metabolite of an altered androgen metabolism that eventually leads hepatocellular carcinoma to impaired hormone responsiveness in human. Etiocholanedione has been identified as a metabolite of 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone in some patients affected by congenital adrenal hyperplasia, although it doesn't appear to account for the masculinization observed in congenital hyperplasia. Etiocholanedione can be the product of microbial contamination of urine since a few organisms are able to synthesize it using endogenous steroids as substrates. Human axillary bacteria are able to produce small amounts of etiocholanedione from testosterone. (PMID: 12161001, 13795320, 11161304, 2026727). Etiocholanedione has been found to be a metabolite of Corynebacterium (PMID: 11161304).",expected,288.4244,288.20893014,solid,,RAJWOBJTTGJROA-QJISAEMRSA-N
120,HMDB0003826,"6,7-dimethyl-8-(1-d-ribityl)lumazine",C13H18N4O6,"6,7-Dimethyl-8-(1-D-ribityl)lumazine belongs to the class of organic compounds known as pteridines and derivatives. These are polycyclic aromatic compounds containing a pteridine moiety, which consists of a pyrimidine fused to a pyrazine ring to form pyrimido(4,5-b)pyrazine. 6,7-Dimethyl-8-(1-D-ribityl)lumazine is an extremely weak basic (essentially neutral) compound (based on its pKa). 6,7-Dimethyl-8-(1-D-ribityl)lumazine exists in all living organisms, ranging from bacteria to humans. In humans, 6,7-dimethyl-8-(1-D-ribityl)lumazine is involved in riboflavin metabolism. Outside of the human body, 6,7-dimethyl-8-(1-D-ribityl)lumazine has been detected, but not quantified in, several different foods, such as quinoa, arrowhead, conchs, watermelons, and Elliott's blueberries. This could make 6,7-dimethyl-8-(1-D-ribityl)lumazine a potential biomarker for the consumption of these foods. 6,7-Dimethyl-8-(1-D-ribityl)lumazine is an intermediate in riboflavin metabolism. 6,7-Dimethyl-8-(1-D-ribityl)lumazine is the second to last step in the synthesis of ribitol and is converted from 4-(1-D-ribitylamino)-5-amino-2,6-dihydroxypyrimidine via the enzyme riboflavin synthase beta chain. It is then converted into riboflavin via the enzyme riboflavin synthase alpha chain (EC 2.5.1.9).",expected,326.3052,326.122634328,solid,,SXDXRJZUAJBNFL-XKSSXDPKSA-N
121,HMDB0003841,5-amino-6-(5'-phosphoribitylamino)uracil,C9H17N4O9P,"5-Amino-6-(5'-phosphoribitylamino)uracil belongs to the class of organic compounds known as monosaccharide phosphates. These are monosaccharides comprising a phosphated group linked to the carbohydrate unit. 5-Amino-6-(5'-phosphoribitylamino)uracil is an extremely weak basic (essentially neutral) compound (based on its pKa). 5-Amino-6-(5'-phosphoribitylamino)uracil has been detected, but not quantified in, several different foods, such as sapodilla, kumquats, sacred lotus, Persian limes, and Cascade huckleberries. This could make 5-amino-6-(5'-phosphoribitylamino)uracil a potential biomarker for the consumption of these foods. 5-Amino-6-(5'-phosphoribitylamino)uracil is an intermediate in riboflavin metabolism. 5-Amino-6-(5'-phosphoribitylamino)uracil is the third to last step in the synthesis of 7-hydroxy-6-methyl-8-ribityl lumazine and is converted from 5-amino-6-(5'-phosphoribosylamino)uracil via the enzyme 5-amino-6-(5-phosphoribosylamino)uracil reductase (EC 1.1.1.193). It is then converted into 4-(1-D-ribitylamino)-5-amino-2,6-dihydroxypyrimidine via a hydrolase enzyme (EC 3.1.3.- ).",expected,356.2264,356.073314674,solid,,RQRINYISXYAZKL-RPDRRWSUSA-N
122,HMDB0004085,tuberculostearic acid,C19H38O2,"Tuberculostearic acid is the characteristic fatty acid of acid-fast bacteria of the order Actinomycetales. (PMID 3329256). Tuberculostearic acid (TBSA) is a mycobacterial cell wall constituent that is possible to measure in plasma samples of patients with active tuberculosis. (PMID 14723350). Detection of tuberculostearic acid in cerebrospinal fluid by use of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry has proven to be a very rapid, sensitive, and specific test for tuberculous meningitis. (PMID 8438134). Tuberculostearic acid can also be found in Actinomycetales (PMID: 109465).",detected,298.5038,298.28718046,solid,['cerebrospinal fluid (csf)'],BEOUGZFCUMNGOU-UHFFFAOYSA-N
123,HMDB0004162,galactan,(C12H20O11)nC2H6,"Galactan is a beta-glucan consisting of polymerized galactose. Beta -glucans are glucose polymers found in the cell walls of plants, fungi, and bacteria and as conserved structures can be considered to be classical pathogen-associated molecular patterns. These polymers belong to a class of drugs known as biological response modifiers and have a variety of effects on the immune system, including antitumor and anti-infective activities, protecting against fungal, bacterial, viral, and protozoal infections. Both particulate and soluble beta -glucans mediate these activities by activating leukocytes and stimulating their phagocytic activity and the production of reactive oxygen intermediates, inflammatory mediators, and cytokines. Despite the wealth of knowledge regarding the effects of beta-glucans and their obvious therapeutic potential, the molecular mechanisms that underlie these responses are not well understood. A number of receptors are thought to play a role in mediating these responses, including murine Dectin-1, which we recently identified as a beta-glucan receptor. Dectin-1 is a C-type lectin receptor that mediates the production of reactive oxygen species and inflammatory cytokines. Galactan is found in hemicellulose and can be converted to galactose by hydrolysis. (PMID: 11567029, 11567029, 16880608). Galactan can be produced by bacteria, such as Bifidobacteria, Lactococcus and Methylobacterium (http://www.scielo.br/pdf/babt/v54n6/02.pdf).",expected,,,solid,,PTHCMJGKKRQCBF-ICIGWGHZSA-N
124,HMDB0004284,tyrosol,C8H10O2,"Tyrosol is a phenolic compound present in two of the traditional components of the Mediterranean diet: wine and virgin olive oil. The presence of tyrosol has been described in red and white wines. Tyrosol is also present in vermouth and beer. Tyrosol has been shown to be able to exert antioxidant activity in vitro studies. Oxidation of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) appears to occur predominantly in arterial intimae in microdomains sequestered from antioxidants of plasma. The antioxidant content of the LDL particle is critical for its protection. The ability of tyrosol to bind human LDL has been reported. The bioavailability of tyrosol in humans from virgin olive oil in its natural form has been demonstrated. Urinary tyrosol increases, reaching a peak at 0-4 h after virgin olive oil administration. Men and women show a different pattern of urinary excretion of tyrosol. Moreover, tyrosol is absorbed in a dose-dependent manner after sustained and moderate doses of virgin olive oil. Tyrosol from wine or virgin olive oil could exert beneficial effects on human health in vivo if its biological properties are confirmed (PMID 15134375). Tyrosol is a microbial metabolite found in Bifidobacterium, Escherichia and Lactobacillus (PMID:28393285).",quantified,138.1638,138.068079564,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",YCCILVSKPBXVIP-UHFFFAOYSA-N
125,HMDB0004327,1-butanol,C4H10O,"1-Butanol, which is also known as n-butanol or 1-butanol or butyl alcohol (sometimes also called biobutanol when produced biologically), is an alcohol with a 4 carbon structure and the molecular formula of C4H10O. It is primarily used as a solvent, as an intermediate in chemical synthesis, and as a fuel. There are four isomeric structures for butanol. The straight chain isomer with the alcohol at an internal carbon is sec-butanol or 2-butanol. The branched isomer with the alcohol at a terminal carbon is isobutanol, and the branched isomer with the alcohol at the internal carbon is tert-butanol. 1-Butanol is produced in small amounts by gut microbial fermenetation through the butanoate metabolic pathway. It has been found in Bacillus, Clostridium, Escherichia, Lactobacillus, Pseudomonas, Saccharomyces, Synechococcus and Thermoanaerobacterium.",quantified,74.1216,74.073164942,liquid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva']",LRHPLDYGYMQRHN-UHFFFAOYSA-N
126,HMDB0004812,"2,5-furandicarboxylic acid",C6H4O5,"2,5-Furandicarboxylic acid is a normal urinary metabolite in humans. (PMID:14708889, 8087979, 2338430, 3711221). Dietary studies show that the furan derivatives or their precursors are of exogenous origin. They are originated from furan derivatives found in food prepared by strong heating. This may explain the absence of 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid in urine of breastfed children, and the absence of these acids in the urine of rats, pigs, cows, oxs, rabbits, and monkeys (PMID 4630229). 2,5-Furandicarboxylic acid is also a microbial metabolite, a product of the oxidation of hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) by the enzyme furfural/HMF oxidoreductase which is found in the bacterium Cupriavidus basilensis. Cupriavidus basilensis is a gram-negative soil bacterium of the genus Cupriavidus and the family Burkholderiaceae. 2,5-Furandicarboxylic acid increases with the level of fructose consumed (PMID:20194784).",quantified,156.093,156.005873238,solid,"['blood', 'urine']",CHTHALBTIRVDBM-UHFFFAOYSA-N
127,HMDB0004983,dimethyl sulfone,C2H6O2S,"Dimethyl sulfone, also known as sulfonylbismethane or lignisul MSM, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as sulfones. Sulfones are compounds containing a sulfonyl group, which has the general structure RS(=O)2R' (R,R' =alkyl, aryl), attached to two carbon atoms. Dimethyl sulfone (DMSO2) is an organic sulfur compound belonging to a class of chemicals known as sulfones. It derives from dietary sources, from intestinal bacterial metabolism and from human endogenous methanethiol metabolism. DMSO2 reflects its close chemical relationship to dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), which differs only in the oxidation state of the sulfur atom. Dimethyl sulfone is possibly neutral. Dimethyl sulfone exists in all living organisms, ranging from bacteria to humans. DMSO2 is the primary metabolite of DMSO in humans, and it shares some of the properties of DMSO. Dimethyl sulfone is sulfurous tasting compound. dimethyl sulfone is found on average in the highest concentration in milk (cow). Dimethyl sulfone has also been detected, but not quantified in asparagus and guava. This could make dimethyl sulfone a potential biomarker for the consumption of these foods. Dimethyl sulfone can be found in Afipia. It occurs naturally in some primitive plants and is present in small amounts in many foods and beverages.  Dimethyl sulfone can be found in plasma and CSF of normal humans.",quantified,94.133,94.008850126,solid,"['blood', 'cerebrospinal fluid (csf)', 'saliva', 'urine']",HHVIBTZHLRERCL-UHFFFAOYSA-N
128,HMDB0005784,hydroxytyrosol,C8H10O3,Hydroxytyrosol is a polyphenol extracted from virgin olive oil and a natural antioxidant. It has a protective effect in preventing protein damage induced by ultraviolet radiation (PMID: 15749387). Research results suggest that Hydroxytyrosol could exert its antioxidant effect by scavenging hydrogen peroxide but not superoxide anion released during the respiratory burst (PMID: 15476671). Hydroxytyrosol has been found to be a metabolite of Escherichia (PMID: 22948011).,quantified,154.1632,154.062994186,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",JUUBCHWRXWPFFH-UHFFFAOYSA-N
129,HMDB0006006,isobutanol,C4H10O,"Isobutanol is an aliphatic alcohol. Isobutanol is a colorless, flammable, organic compound with a characteristic smell. Isobutanol is widely used in industry, as a solvent in chemical reactions, as well as being a useful starting material for organic synthesis. Isobutanol is a flammable liquid that should be stored and used in well-ventilated areas. It is moderately irritating to the skin and greatly irritating to the eyes, mucous membranes and respiratory tract. Exposure to high concentrations of its vapour can cause temporary narcosis. Isobutanol is occasionally found as a volatile component of urine and arises from gut microbial metabolism. Isobutanol is used as one of the markers to measure occupational exposure to a mixture of solvents. Aliphatic alcohols levels increase in both diabetes mellitus and insulin-dependent diabetes patients. (PMID:5556886, 2477620, 9143482, 7627316, 2288731). Isobutanol is a microbial metabolite found in Clostridium, Cupriavidus, Escherichia, Geobacillus, Saccharomyces and Synechococcus (PMID:19946322).",detected,74.1216,74.073164942,liquid,"['feces', 'saliva']",ZXEKIIBDNHEJCQ-UHFFFAOYSA-N
130,HMDB0006007,isopentanol,C5H12O,"Isopentanol, also known as isoamyl alcohol or 3-methylbutanol, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as primary alcohols. Primary alcohols are compounds comprising the primary alcohol functional group, with the general structure RCOH (R=alkyl, aryl). Thus, isopentanol is considered to be a fatty alcohol lipid molecule. Isopentanol is a very hydrophobic molecule, practically insoluble in water, and relatively neutral. Isopentanol exists in all eukaryotes, ranging from yeast to humans. Isopentanol is an alcoholic, banana, and burnt tasting compound. Isopentanol is found, on average, in the highest concentration within milk (cow). Isopentanol has also been detected, but not quantified, in several different foods, such as chinese cinnamons, grapefruits, walnuts, wild leeks, and spearmints. This could make isopentanol a potential biomarker for the consumption of these foods. Isopentanol is one of several isomers of amyl alcohol. Isopentanol is the major higher chain alcohol in alcoholic beverages and is present in cider, mead, beer, wine, and spirits to varying degrees, being obtained by the fermentation of starches. Isopentanol, with regard to humans, has been found to be associated with the diseases such as ulcerative colitis; isopentanol has also been linked to the inborn metabolic disorder celiac disease. Isopentanol is a metabolite found in Escherichia (PMID:18676713).",quantified,88.1482,88.088815006,liquid,"['feces', 'saliva']",PHTQWCKDNZKARW-UHFFFAOYSA-N
131,HMDB0006116,3-hydroxyhippuric acid,C9H9NO4,"3-Hydroxyhippuric acid is an acyl glycine. Acyl glycines are normally minor metabolites of fatty acids. However, the excretion of certain acyl glycines is increased in several inborn errors of metabolism. In certain cases the measurement of these metabolites in body fluids can be used to diagnose disorders associated with mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation. Acyl glycines are produced through the action of glycine N-acyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.13) which is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction: acyl-CoA + glycine < -- > CoA + N-acylglycine. 3-Hydroxyhippuric acid is an organic acid found in normal human urine. 3-Hydroxyhippuric acid is a metabolite of rutin detected in urine after consumption of tomato juice (a source of rutin). 3-Hydroxyhippuric acid has its origin in dietary procyanidins (a major source of polyphenols consisting of elementary flavan-3-ol (epi)catechin units). 3-Hydroxyhippuric acid is a microbial aromatic acid metabolite derived from dietary polyphenols and flavonoids, found in normal human urine (PMID: 12592675, 2338430, 17015248, 14556848, 12742116). It is a marker of gut Clostridium species. Higher levels are associated with higher levels of Clostridia (PMID: 27123458).",quantified,195.1721,195.053157781,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",XDOFWFNMYJRHEW-UHFFFAOYSA-N
132,HMDB0006331,"cis,cis-muconic acid",C6H6O4,"cis-cis-Muconic acid is a presumptive metabolite of benzene. Muconic acid was first isolated from the urine of rabbits and dogs in 1909 (M. Jaffe, Z Physiol Chem 62:58-67). It was originally thought that if muconic acid was formed by the opening of the benzene ring in vivo then the cis-cis isomer should be the initial (and primary) product. However subsequent studies conducted in the 1950s proved that trans-trans-muconic acid is a true metabolite of benzene in mammals (Parke DV, Williams RT. Biochem J 51:339-348 (1952)). Furthermore, dosing rabbits with phenol or catechol also resulted in the urinary excretion of trans-trans-muconic acid. The oxidative ring opening of benzene first gives rise to cis-cis-muconaldehyde, which then isomerizes to cis-trans- and trans-trans-muconaldehyde; the latter is oxidized in vivo to trans-trans-muconic acid. Isomerization of the trans-trans form may take place in vivo to yield small amounts if the cis-cis and cis-trans form of muconic acid. cis-cis-Muconic acid may also be generated from microbial fermentation of benzoic acid. Certain strains of arthobacter are particularly efficient at this process. cis-cis-Muconic acid can also be found in Pseudomonas and Escherichia coli (https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF00250491) (PMID:26360870).",detected,142.1094,142.02660868,solid,['saliva'],TXXHDPDFNKHHGW-CCAGOZQPSA-N
133,HMDB0006344,phenylacetylglutamine,C13H16N2O4,"Phenylacetylglutamine is a product formed from the conjugation of phenylacetate and glutamine. Technically, it is the amino acid acetylation product of phenylacetate (or phenylbutyrate after beta-oxidation). Phenylacetylglutamine is a normal constituent of human urine, but other mammals such as the dog, cat, rat, monkey, sheep, and horse do not excrete this compound. Phenylacetyl-CoA and L-glutamine react to form phenylacetylglutamine and coenzyme A. The enzyme (glutamine N-acetyl transferase) that catalyzes this reaction has been purified from human liver mitochondria and shown to be a polypeptide species distinct from glycine-N-acyltransferase. Phenylacetylglutamine is a major nitrogenous metabolite that accumulates in uremia (PMID: 2791363, 8972626). It has been shown that over 50% of urine phenylacetylglutamine may be derived from kidney conjugation of free plasma phenylacetic acid and/or from the kidney's preferential filtration of conjugated phenylacetic acid (PMID: 6420430). Phenylacetylglutamine is a microbial metabolite found in Christensenellaceae, Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae (PMID: 26241311).",quantified,264.2771,264.11100701,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",JFLIEFSWGNOPJJ-JTQLQIEISA-N
134,HMDB0006354,deoxythymidine diphosphate-l-rhamnose,C16H26N2O15P2,"Deoxythymidine diphosphate-L-rhamnose (dTDP-L-rhamnose) is the precursor of L-rhamnose, a saccharide required for the virulence of some pathogenic bacteria. In gram-negative bacteria such as Salmonella enterica, Vibrio cholerae, or Escherichia coli 075:K5, L-rhamnose is an important residue in the O-antigen of lipopolysaccharides, which are essential for resistance to serum killing and colonization. In gram-positive bacteria such as streptococci, the capsule is a recognized virulence factor. For example, L-rhamnose is known to be present in the capsule of Streptococcus suis, a causative agent of meningitis in humans. In Streptococcus mutans, L-rhamnose containing polysaccharides have been implicated in tooth surface colonization and adherence to kidney, muscle, and heart tissues. In mycobacteria, L-rhamnose is fundamental to the structural integrity of the cell wall since it connects the inner peptidoglycan layer to the arabinogalactan polysaccharides. dTDP-L-rhamnose is synthesized from glucose-1-phosphate and deoxythymidine triphosphate (dTTP) via a pathway involving four distinct enzymes. Whereas common sugars such as glucose, fructose, and mannose are all D-configured, bacteria commonly utilize the L-configured carbohydrates in pharmacologically active compounds and their cell-wall structures. The bacterial cell wall is unique to bacteria; neither the cell wall nor the enzymes and chemical intermediates in its formation have analogues in humans. The enzymes involved in dTDP-L-rhamnose synthesis are potential targets for the design of new therapeutic agents (PMID: 10802738, 12773151).",expected,548.3296,548.080841196,solid,,ZOSQFDVXNQFKBY-CGAXJHMRSA-N
135,HMDB0006357,cis-2-methylaconitate,C7H8O6,cis-2-Methylaconitate is produced due to the dehydration of 2-methylcitrate in 2-methylcitric acid cycle. The cycle is catalyzed by a cofactor-less (PrpD) enzyme or by an aconitase-like (AcnD) enzyme. (PMID: 17567742). cis-2-Methylaconitate has been found to be a microbial metabolite (ECMDB).,expected,188.1348,188.032087988,solid,,NUZLRKBHOBPTQV-ARJAWSKDSA-N
136,HMDB0006557,adp-glucose,C16H25N5O15P2,"ADP-glucose serves as the glycosyl donor for formation of bacterial glycogen, amylose in green algae, and amylopectin in higher plants. ADP-glucose has been found to be a metabolite of Escherichia (PMID: 25102309).",expected,589.3417,589.082238179,solid,,WFPZSXYXPSUOPY-ROYWQJLOSA-N
137,HMDB0006797,sorbose 1-phosphate,C6H13O9P,Sorbose 1-phosphate is formed when extracellular sorbose is taken into the cell. The enzyme responsible for this is PTS-Sor-EIIA [EC:2.7.1.69]. Sorbose 1-phosphate has been found to be a metabolite of Klebsiella and Lactobacillus (PMID: 6361004; PMID: 12177329).,expected,260.1358,260.029718526,solid,,ZKLLSNQJRLJIGT-OTWZMJIISA-N
138,HMDB0010207,l-rhamnulose,C6H12O5,"L-Rhamnulose (CAS: 14807-05-7), also known as 6-deoxy-L-fructose, is a breakdown product of L-rhamnose, which is ubiquitous and particularly abundant in some plants, such as buckthorn. Rhamnose is also one of the sugars regularly used to conduct the dual sugar permeability test. Rhamnose is fermented by some colonic bacteria into L-rhamnulose. Three bacterial (gut microflora) enzymes are involved in rhamnose degradation including rhaB (rhamnulose kinase), rhaA (rhamnose isomerase), and rhaD (rhamnulose-1-phosphate aldolase). L-Rhamnulose kinase catalyzes the transfer of the gamma-phosphate group from ATP to the 1-hydroxyl group of L-rhamnulose. L-Rhamnulose has been found in Escherichia (PMID: 4975916).",quantified,164.157,164.068473486,solid,['blood'],CJJCPDZKQKUXSS-ARQDHWQXSA-N
139,HMDB0011635,p-cresol sulfate,C7H8O4S,"p-Cresol sulfate is a microbial metabolite that is found in urine and likely derives from secondary metabolism of p-cresol. It appears to be elevated in the urine of individuals with progressive multiple sclerosis (PMID:10775436). p-Cresol sulfate is the major component of urinary MBPLM (myelin basic protein-like material). p-Cresol sulfate is a small protein-bound molecule that is poorly cleared with dialysis. It has been identified as a uremic toxin according to the European Uremic Toxin Working Group (PMID:22626821). Uremic toxins include other low-molecular-weight compounds such as indoxyl sulfate, 3-carboxy-4-methyl-5-propyl-2-furanpropionic acid, and asymmetric dimethylarginine (PMID:18941347). It has also been linked to cardiovascular disease and oxidative injury. Higher levels are associated with overgrowth of intestinal bacteria from Clostridia species, including C. difficile. p-Cresol is generated by the partial breakdown of tyrosine and phenylalanine by a wide range of intestinal obligate or facultative anaerobes, including the genera Bacteroides, Lactobacillus, Enterobacter, Bifidobacterium, and especially Clostridium (PMID:2394806).",quantified,188.201,188.014329434,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'saliva', 'urine']",WGNAKZGUSRVWRH-UHFFFAOYSA-N
140,HMDB0011731,5-keto-d-gluconate,C6H10O7,"5-Keto-D-gluconate is metabolized from glucose in certain bacterial species. It is an intermediate in L-idonate degradation and ketogluconate metabolism. 5-Keto-D-gluconate 5-reductase catalyzes the reversible reduction of 5-ketogluconate to D-gluconate. This is the second reaction of the L-idonate catabolic pathway after uptake of L-idonate into the cell. The enzyme specifically reduces 5-ketogluconate using either NADH or NADPH. The enzyme is also specific for D-gluconate oxidation using NADP as the coenzyme, NAD does not serve as a coenzyme. 5-Keto-D-gluconate has also been found to be a metabolite of Gluconobacter (https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S138111779800112X).",detected,194.1394,194.042652674,solid,['feces'],IZSRJDGCGRAUAR-UHFFFAOYSA-N
141,HMDB0011743,2-phenylpropionate,C9H10O2,"2-Phenylpropionate is an intermediate in alpha-Methylstyrene (2-phenylpropylene) metabolism. It was identified in human liver slices in small amounts. It is. likely that 2-Phenylpropionate derives from 2-phenylpropionaldehyde, formed from a. 1,2-hydride shift during the transfer of active oxygen to the vinyl. group, as has been proposed for the cytochrome P450-mediated oxidation. of styrene to form phenylacetaldehyde. (PMID: 11159807). 2-Phenylpropionate has been found to be a metabolite of Acinetobacter, Bacteroides, Bifidobacterium, Clostridium, Enterococcus, Escherichia, Eubacterium, Klebsiella, Lactobacillus, Pseudomonas and Staphylococcus (PMID: 19961416).",quantified,150.1745,150.068079564,solid,"['blood', 'urine']",YPGCWEMNNLXISK-UHFFFAOYSA-N
142,HMDB0012275,phenylethylamine,C8H11N,"Phenylethylamine (PEA) is an aromatic amine, which is a colorless liquid at room temperature. It is soluble in water, ethanol, and ether. Similar to other low-molecular-weight amines, it has a fishy odor. Upon exposure to air, it forms a solid carbonate salt with carbon dioxide. Phenethylamine is strongly basic and forms a stable crystalline hydrochloride salt with a melting point of 217 °C. Phenethylamine is also a skin irritant and possible sensitizer. Phenethylamine also has a constitutional isomer (+)-phenylethylamine (1-phenylethylamine), which has two stereoisomers: (R)-(+)-1-phenylethylamine and (S)-(-)-1-phenylethylamine. In the human brain, 2-phenethylamine is believed to function as a neuromodulator or neurotransmitter (a trace amine). Phenethylamine can be biosynthesized from the amino acid phenylalanine by enzymatic decarboxylation. It is also found in many foods such as chocolate, especially after microbial fermentation. However trace amounts from food are quickly metabolized by the enzyme MAO-B (into phenylacetic acid), preventing significant concentrations from reaching the brain. Phenylethylamine is a precursor to the neurotransmitter phenylethanolamine. High levels of PEA have been found in the urine of schizophrenics but it is not significantly elevated in the serum or CSF of schizophrenics (PMID:7906896, PMID:7360842).¬† Urinary levels of PEA are significantly lower in children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) (PMID:12205654).¬† It has been found that PEA is the primary compound found in carnivore (especially cat) urine that leads to rodent (mouse and rat) avoidance. In other words, phenylethylamine is useful for scaring off rodent pests.¬† Quantitative HPLC analysis across 38 mammalian species has shown that PEA production in urine is especially enhanced in carnivores, with some producing >3,000-fold more than herbivores (PMID:21690383). Phenethylamine has been found to be a metabolite of Bacillus, Enterococcus and Lactobacillus (PMID:22953951; PMID:17307265; PMID:16630269).",quantified,121.1796,121.089149357,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",BHHGXPLMPWCGHP-UHFFFAOYSA-N
143,HMDB0012326,l-gulose,C6H12O6,Gulose is an aldohexose sugar and a C-3 epimer of galactose. It is an unnatural monosaccharide that exists as a syrup with a sweet taste. It is soluble in water and slightly soluble in methanol. Both the D- and L-forms are not fermentable by yeast. L-gulose is an L-hexose sugar and an intermediate in the biosynthesis of L-Ascorbate (vitamin C). It can be oxidized to L-guluno-1-4-lactone and it is also produced by the hydrolysis of L-gulose-1-P. Vitamic C is an important antioxidant and an enzyme cofactor. Higher plants and higher animals (but not humans) can synthesize ascorbate. Plants provide the major dietary vitamin C source for humans. The plant ascorbate biosynthesis pathways have only been recently proposed and they differ from what was found in mammals. Gulose has been found to be a metabolite of Ketogulonicigenium (PMID: 15785002).,expected,180.1559,180.063388116,solid,,WQZGKKKJIJFFOK-QRXFDPRISA-N
144,HMDB0013244,lipid a,C94H178N2O25P2,"Lipid A is a lipid component of an endotoxin held responsible for toxicity of Gram-negative bacteria. It is the innermost of the three regions of the lipopolysaccharide (LPS, also called endotoxin) molecule, and its hydrophobic nature allows it to anchor the LPS to the outer membrane. While its toxic effects can be damaging, the sensing of lipid A by the human immune system may also be critical for the onset of immune responses to Gram-negative infection, and for the subsequent successful fight against the infection. Many of the immune activating abilities of LPS can be attributed to the lipid A unit. It is a very potent stimulant of the immune system, activating cells (for example, monocytes or macrophages) at picogram per milliliter quantities. Lipid A has been found in Escherichia, Pseudomonas, Salmonella and meningococcus (PMID: 11948150; PMID: 12045108).",expected,1798.365,1797.21939228,solid,,GZQKNULLWNGMCW-PWQABINMSA-N
145,HMDB0013470,lps with o-antigen,C211H376N8O126P6,"Lipopolysaccharides (LPS), also known as lipoglycans, are large molecules consisting of a lipid and a polysaccharide joined by a covalent bond; they are found in the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria, act as endotoxins and elicit strong immune responses in animals. LPS is the major component of the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria, contributing greatly to the structural integrity of the bacteria, and protecting the membrane from certain kinds of chemical attack. LPS also increases the negative charge of the cell membrane and helps stabilize the overall membrane structure. It is of crucial importance to gram negative bacteria, whose death results if it is mutated or removed. LPS is an endotoxin, and induces a strong response from normal animal immune systems. LPS acts as the prototypical endotoxin because it binds the CD14/TLR4/MD2 receptor complex, which promotes the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines in many cell types, but especially in macrophages. In Immunology, the term ""LPS challenge"" refers to the process of exposing a subject to an LPS which may act as a toxin. LPS is also an exogenous pyrogen (external fever-inducing substance). Being of crucial importance to gram negative bacteria, these molecules make candidate targets for new antimicrobial agents. LPS comprises three parts: 1. O antigen (or O polysaccharide). 2. Core polysaccharide. 3. Lipid A. The making of LPS can be modified in order to present a specific sugar structure. Those can be recognised by either other LPS (which enables to inhibit LPS toxins) or glycosyltransferases which use those sugar structure to add more specific sugars. It has recently been shown that a specific enzyme in the intestine (alkaline phosphatase) can detoxify LPS by removing the two phosphate groups found on LPS carbohydrates [6]. This may function as an adaptive mechanism to help the host manage potentially toxic effects of gram-negative bacteria normally found in the small intestine. (from wiki). This card shows the example of LPS in E. coli with one o-antigen unit. LPS with O-antigen has been found to be a metabolite of Escherichia, Pseudomonas and Salmonella (PMID: 12045108).",quantified,5227.0637,5224.168615516,solid,['blood'],BFVQTKQTUCQRPI-YYEZTRBPSA-N
146,HMDB0013471,lps core,C175H317N5O101P6,"Lipopolysaccharides (LPS), also known as lipoglycans, are large molecules consisting of a lipid and a polysaccharide joined by a covalent bond; they are found in the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria, act as endotoxins and elicit strong immune responses in animals. LPS is the major component of the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria, contributing greatly to the structural integrity of the bacteria, and protecting the membrane from certain kinds of chemical attack. LPS also increases the negative charge of the cell membrane and helps stabilize the overall membrane structure. It is of crucial importance to gram negative bacteria, whose death results if it is mutated or removed. LPS is an endotoxin, and induces a strong response from normal animal immune systems. LPS acts as the prototypical endotoxin because it binds the CD14/TLR4/MD2 receptor complex, which promotes the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines in many cell types, but especially in macrophages. In Immunology, the term ""LPS challenge"" refers to the process of exposing a subject to an LPS which may act as a toxin. LPS is also an exogenous pyrogen (external fever-inducing substance). Being of crucial importance to gram negative bacteria, these molecules make candidate targets for new antimicrobial agents. LPS comprises three parts: 1. O antigen (or O polysaccharide). 2. Core polysaccharide. 3. Lipid A. LPS Core domain always contains an oligosaccharide component which attaches directly to lipid A and commonly contains sugars such as heptose and 3-deoxy-D-mannooctulosonic Acid (also known as KDO, keto-deoxyoctulosonate).[2] The LPS Cores of many bacteria also contain non-carbohydrate components, such as phosphate, amino acids, and ethanolamine substitutents.(from wiki). This card shows the LPS core component in E.coli.  LPS core has also been found in Pseudomonas and Salmonella (PMID: 9791168) (Wikipedia).",quantified,4293.205,4290.824851063,solid,['blood'],AAXCQFOXUJMCCW-PETQGJDISA-N
147,HMDB0013675,"1,3,5-trihydroxybenzene",C6H6O3,"Phloroglucinol is a benzenetriol. It is an organic compound that is used in the synthesis of pharmaceuticals and explosives. This molecule exists in two forms, or tautomers, 1,3,5-trihydroxybenzene, which has phenol-like, and 1,3,5-cyclohexanetrione (phloroglucin), which has ketone-like character. These two tautomers are in equilibrium. Phloroglucinol is a useful intermediate because it is polyfunctional. 1,3,5-Trihydroxybenzene has been found to be a metabolite in Pseudomonas (PMID: 15826166).",detected,126.11,126.031694058,solid,['feces'],QCDYQQDYXPDABM-UHFFFAOYSA-N
148,HMDB0029185,"5-(3',4'-dihydroxyphenyl)-gamma-valerolactone",C11H12O4,"5-(3',4'-Dihydroxyphenyl)-gamma-valerolactone (CAS: 21618-92-8) is a cocoa metabolite from gut microflora. It is found in urine. 5-(3',4'-Dihydroxyphenyl)-gamma-valerolactone is a flavonoid metabolite.",quantified,208.213,208.073558866,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",ZNXXWTPQHVLMQT-MRVPVSSYSA-N
149,HMDB0029737,indole-3-carboxaldehyde,C9H7NO,"Indole-3-carboxaldehyde (IAld or I3A), also known as 3-formylindole or 3-indolealdehyde, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as indoles. Indoles are compounds containing an indole moiety, which consists of a pyrrole ring fused to benzene to form 2,3-benzopyrrole. In humans, I3A is a biologically active metabolite which acts as a receptor agonist at the aryl hydrocarbon receptor in intestinal immune cells. It stimulates the production of interleukin-22 which facilitates mucosal reactivity (PMID:27102537). I3A is a microbially derived tryptophan metabolite produced by Clostridium and Lactobacillus (PMID:30120222, 27102537). I3A has also been found in the urine of patients with untreated phenylketonuria (PMID:5073866). I3A has been detected, but not quantified, in several different foods, such as beans, Brussels sprouts, cucumbers, cereals and cereal products, and white cabbages. This could make I3A a potential biomarker for the consumption of these foods.",detected,145.158,145.052763851,solid,"['blood', 'urine']",OLNJUISKUQQNIM-UHFFFAOYSA-N
150,HMDB0029738,indole-3-methyl acetate,C11H11NO2,"Indole-3-methyl acetate, also known as methyl indole-3-acetate (methyl-IAA), is a catabolite of tryptophan converted by the gut microbiota. After absorption through the intestinal epithelium, tryptophan catabolites enter the bloodstream and are later excreted in the urine (PMID: 30120222). Pediatric enthesitis-related arthritis (ERA) patients (i.e. spondyloarthropathy associated with inflammatory bowel disease) have intestinal inflammation and decreased gut microbial diversity. Such alterations in the gut microbiota resulted in the reduction of tryptophan metabolism and several tryptophan metabolites in pediatric ERA fecal samples, including indole-3-methyl acetate (PMID: 27786174). Indole-3-methyl acetate is found in apple, and has been isolated from immature seeds of beach pea (Lathyrus maritimus), Vicia amurensis, wild soybean (Glycine soja), lobiya (Vigna catiang var. sinensis) and hyacinth bean (Dolichos lablab).",quantified,189.2105,189.078978601,solid,"['blood', 'feces', 'urine']",KTHADMDGDNYQRX-UHFFFAOYSA-N
151,HMDB0029942,d-arabinose,C5H10O5,"D-Arabinose (CAS: 10323-20-3) belongs to the class of organic compounds known as pentoses. These are monosaccharides in which the carbohydrate moiety contains five carbon atoms. Outside of the human body, D-arabinose has been detected, but not quantified in, sweet basils and tamarinds. This could make D-arabinose a potential biomarker for the consumption of these foods.",quantified,150.13,150.052823422,,['feces'],SRBFZHDQGSBBOR-SQOUGZDYSA-N
152,HMDB0031193,"1,2,3-propanetricarboxylic acid",C6H8O6,"1,2,3-Propanetricarboxylic acid is found in corn. 1,2,3-Propanetricarboxylic acid is isolated from plants e.g. sugarbeet sap, sap of Acer saccharinum (maple syrup). Propane-1,2,3-tricarboxylic acid, also known as tricarballylic acid, carballylic acid, and beta-carboxyglutaric acid, is a tricarboxylic acid that has three carboxylic acid functional groups. The compound is an inhibitor of the enzyme aconitase and interferes with the Krebs cycle. 1,2,3-Propanetricarboxylic acid can be produced by Bacteroides, Butyrivibrio, Megasphaera, Wolinella and fungi Nectriaceae (PMID:22815244; PMID:16346691). It is also associated with Fumonisins. Fumonisins are fungal toxins produced by Fusarium verticilloides. Detection of this compound indicates presence of fumonisins in gastrointestinal tract. Corn intake or corn contaminated with fumonisins can lead to increased levels of tricarballylic acid (PMID:22815244).",detected,176.1241,176.032087988,solid,['feces'],KQTIIICEAUMSDG-UHFFFAOYSA-N
153,HMDB0031641,pyrrolidine,C4H9N,"Pyrrolidine is found in alcoholic beverages. Pyrrolidine is widely distributed in foodstuffs in trace amts., presumably as bacterial decarboxylation produced of proline. Pyrrolidine is present in bread, milk, cheese, carrots, celery stalks, beer, spirits, coffee, caviar and fatty fish. Pyrrolidine is a flavouring agent.Pyrrolidine is a clear liquid with an unpleasant odor that is ammoniacal, fishy, shellfish-like and seaweed-like. Pyrrolidine is found naturally in the leaves of tobacco and carrot. The pyrrolidine ring structure is present in numerous natural alkaloids such as nicotine and hygrine. It is found in many pharmaceutical drugs such as procyclidine and bepridil. It also forms the basis for the racetam compounds (e.g. piracetam, aniracetam). Pyrrolidine is a pyrrolidine ring is the central structure of the amino acids proline and hydroxyproline. (Wikipedia) Pyrrolidine has been found to be a metabolite in Xenorhabdus (PMID: 19598185).",expected,71.121,71.073499293,liquid,,RWRDLPDLKQPQOW-UHFFFAOYSA-N
154,HMDB0060484,indolepyruvate,C11H9NO3,"The thiamin diphosphate (ThDP)-dependent enzyme indolepyruvate decarboxylase (IPDC) is involved in the biosynthetic pathway of the phytohormone 3-indoleacetic acid and catalyzes the nonoxidative decarboxylation of 3-indolepyruvate to 3-indoleacetaldehyde and carbon dioxide. (PMID:15835904)¬† In addition, the enzyme was compared with the phenylpyruvate decarboxylase from Azospirillum brasilense and the indolepyruvate decarboxylase from Enterobacter cloacae. (PMID:21501384) Indole-3-pyruvate is a microbial metabolite, urinary indole-3-pyruvate is produced by Clostridium sporogenes (PMID:29168502) and Trypanasoma brucei (PMID:27856732).",expected,203.1941,203.058243159,,,RSTKLPZEZYGQPY-UHFFFAOYSA-N
155,HMDB0061755,indican,C14H17NO6,"Indican is a colourless, water-soluble organic compound consisting of an indole ring conjugated to glucose. It is an indole glycoside. Its hydrolysis yields β-D-glucose and indoxyl.  Indoles are compounds which consist of a pyrrole ring fused to benzene to form 2,3-benzopyrrole.  The oxidation of indican by a mild oxidizing agent, e.g. atmospheric oxygen or CYP450 enzymes, yields indigo dye which is blue in colour. Indican is a substance occurring naturally in the urine of humans and mammals and also in blood plasma as a normal metabolite of tryptophan. Tryptophan is first converted to indole by gut bacteria. Following absorption from the gut, indole is converted to 3-hydroxyindole (indoxyl or indican) in the liver, where it is again then conjugated with sulfuric acid or glucoronic acid through normal xenobiotic metabolism pathways. It is then transported to the kidneys for excretion. In individuals affected by the blue diaper syndrome (a rare, autosomal recessive metabolic disorder characterized in infants by bluish urine-stained diapers), the patients exhibit a defect in tryptophan metabolism, leading to an increase in indican synthesis. Indican is then excreted into the urine and from there into the diaper where, upon exposure to air, it is converted to indigo blue dye due to oxidation by atmospheric oxygen. An increased urinary excretion of indican is seen in Hartnup disease from the bacterial degradation of unabsorbed tryptophan (PMID: 19967017). Hartnup disease is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder affecting the absorption of nonpolar amino acids (particularly tryptophan), which leads to excessive bacterial fermentation of tryptophan (to indole) in the gut. Indican has also been identified as a uremic toxin according to the European Uremic Toxin Working Group (PMID: 22626821). Its excretion is decreased by the presence of Lactobacillus bacteria in the gut (PMID: 6785555 ). ",quantified,295.291,295.105587271,,['blood'],XVARCVCWNFACQC-RKQHYHRCSA-N
156,HMDB0062661,"cis,trans-muconate",C6H6O4,"Cis,trans-muconate is also known as (e,Z)-Muconate or cis,trans-1,3-Butadiene-1,4-dicarboxylate.  Cis,trans-muconate is considered to be soluble (in water) and acidic condition. It can be found in Pseudomonas and Escherichia (https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF00250491).",expected,142.11,142.026608673,solid,,TXXHDPDFNKHHGW-UHFFFAOYSA-N
